Euro 2020: Belgian minds on Denmark's Christian Eriksen after easy win over Russia, Latest Football News.
date published: saturday 12th june 2021 10:14               samuel bannister denmark manager kasper hjulmand said he could not praise his players enough after they showed unity in the wake of the crisis of the christian eriksen situation in their euro 2020 opener.
eriksen collapsed towards the end of the the first half of their match against finland and required cpr.
the game was suspended as the medics attended to the 29-year-old.
more than an hour later, they resumed play after their teammate awoke and was taken to hospital.
what followed on the pitch was of little significance on an emotional evening.
denmark lost 1-0 as finland won their first ever major tournament match.
the important thing for everyone involved though was knowing eriksen's condition, which was described as stabilising upon his admission to hospital.
hjulmand was in tears at his post-match press conference as he reflected on a day that left the football world in shock.
"first of all, if it gets emotional, it's been a tough night," said hjulmand.
"we are all reminded of what the most important thing in life is – to have valuable relationships, people we're close to, our family and our friends.
"we have a group of players that i cannot praise enough.
i couldn't be prouder of those people who took such good care of each other.
"he is one of my very dear friends.
the way the players talked in the dressing room to decide to not do anything before we knew christian was conscious and ok. "give our social media channels a follow – we're on facebook, twitter and instagramthe circumstances were tough for eriksen's teammates.
but according to uefa, both teams requested to complete the game after they knew eriksen was in a stable condition.
hjulmand shed light on the situation behind play resuming.
"we had two options to play the game [today] or tomorrow at 12pm and everyone agreed to play today," he said.
"you can't play a game with such feelings.
"we tried to win.
it was incredible they managed to go out and try to play the second half.
"honestly, there were players out there that were completely done.
emotionally done and emotionally exhausted. "
rome: italy capped a perfect night in the stadio olimpico witha euro 2020 opening win over turkeybut coach roberto mancini warned that the road was long between rome and wembley.
a 28-match unbeaten run has put mancini two games short of italy's two-time world cup winning coach vittorio pozzo's record of 30 unbeaten games between 1935 and 1939.
"we still have six games ahead of us.
it's a long way," said the 56-year-old former manchester city manager who took over in 2018 after italy failed to qualify for the world cup that year.
amid the euphoria veteran defender leonardo bonucci called for "cool heads, humility and a down to earth" approach while maintaining "hearts of fire".
in front of 16,000 fans, and preceded by a glittering opening ceremony, the spark was lit for a run which mancini hopes will end with a second european title after 1968 in london on jul 11. italy have the advantage of playing their group a matches at home and next meet switzerland in rome on wednesday followed by wales four days later.
for lazio forward ciro immobile, the group games at home are "pure adrenaline" as the 31-year-old scored his first international goal in his club stadium.
merih demiral's own goal got the ball rolling in the second half before immobile and lorenzo insigne completed the victory.
"we did what we had to do, it was our duty to win the first game on front of our fans," said immobile, who has scored four goals in the last five matches.
"spine-chilling"mancini's front-line trio of immobile, lorenzo insigne and domenico berardi proved efficient for an italy who are without a stand-out star striker.
italy missed out on the 2018 world cup, and the "azzurri" had not hosted an international match since the 1990 world cup.
tenor andrea bocelli's rousing performance to nessun dorma, popularised during that world tournament, set the tone for the night.
"there was an incredible emotion before the match, it was spine-chilling," said roma midfielder leonardo spinazzola, uefa's man-of-the-match after his performance in his club stadium.
"then it was a perfect match, zero goals conceded and we played great football.
"we have a strong team, an incredible mix of strength and technique.
"berardi had a role in all three goals against turkey, and has scored five goals in his last seven games for italy.
"our secret is the group," said napoli's insigne.
"no one's place is guaranteed, those who play know what to do and we put ourselves at the service of each other.
"veteran coach claudio ranieri praised mancini's style which has proved so successful in reviving the four-time world champions.
"what lucidity mancio has, he knows how to manage emotions," ranieri wrote in la gazzetta dello sport on saturday.
"the first game is always the most dangerous, there is the pressure of the debut, the desire to overdo it can sometimes lead you to make mistakes, but roberto mancini was really good.
"he managed emotions, the tactical plan, the most delicate moments of the match with clarity.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
st petersburg: belgium eased to a comfortable 3-0 victory over russia on saturday (jun 12) with two goals from romelu lukaku and one from thomas meunier to confirm their status among the european championship favourites.
the belgians, top of the fifa rankings, went ahead after only 10 minutes through lukaku and doubled the score before the break through meunier.
lukaku scored his second of the night two minutes from the end extending his record tally for his country to 62 goals.
belgium's obvious superiority was evident throughout the group b encounter in st petersburg, and victory for roberto martinez's team came without kevin de bruyne, out with injury, and only a cameo substitute appearance from captain eden hazard, another of the team's talismans.
belgium go to the top of the group standings, ahead on goal difference from finland, who upset denmark 1-0 in copenhagen earlier on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
wales 1switzerland 1baku • striker kieffer moore is enjoying the "big occasion" after heading in an equaliser, as wales snatched a 1-1 draw against wasteful switzerland in their euro 2020 group a clash at the baku olympic stadium yesterday.
moore, who had a first-half opportunity expertly saved by swiss goalkeeper yann sommer, guided the ball into the net on 74 minutes from a joe morrell delivery as he ghosted into space left by the static swiss defence.
"it's great personally, but it's a good start for us.
we would have liked to have won, but a draw from the first game puts us in a good position," said moore on the bbc.
"it's never good going a goal down, but to get one back and see the game out is a big positive for us.
it was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
"i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
"breel embolo had terrorised the welsh defence and put switzerland ahead when he showed impressive strength to outmuscle defender connor roberts from a corner shortly after half-time.
they also had a late goal by mario gavranovic correctly ruled out by the var (video assistant referee) for offside.
the swiss may blame themselves for not killing off the game earlier, having squandered several golden chances through haris seferovic in the first half and embolo after the break.
defender fabian schar had tried to beat goalkeeper danny ward with a cheeky flick before seferovic's 27th-minute curled shot sailed just over the bar.
the forward squandered two more chances before half-time as the swiss notched 11 attempts to wales' two in the first half.
what his teammates failed to achieve with finesse in the first half, embolo did with sheer power and speed in the 49th minute, heading in from a corner for a deserved lead after his powerful run and shot was saved by ward seconds earlier.
"we knew switzerland would have a lot of the ball and that we'd have to be solid and organised defensively," said wales' caretaker boss rob page told the bbc.
"we wanted a positive start and it feels like a win in the changing room.
i'm so proud of the players for digging so deep.
"with captain gareth bale well-marked throughout, they gradually upped the pressure in search of an equaliser as the swiss eased off and conceded some ground, and moore found the space to beat sommer with a glancing header.
"i feel a bit of frustration with the result, as we had the chances for the second goal but didn't take them," embolo said on uefa.
com.
"perhaps we were too passive after the first goal.
we deserved the win, but it turned out to be a draw and that's a pity.
"we have to take the positives, rest, focus on the next game and bring the good things from this match into the next.
"italy lead the group after their impressive 3-0 victory over turkey in the tournament opener on friday and will host the swiss in rome in their second game on wednesday.
wales stay in the azerbaijan capital to face the turks on the same day.
reutersit was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
belgium eased to a 3-0 win over russia in their euro 2020 opener on sunday morning (june 13, singapore time), but considered the victory a footnote after the frightening collapse of denmark playmaker christian eriksen, a long-time teammate and friend of several belgian players.
eriksen, 29, was earlier rushed to hospital after collapsing during the match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch, with football officials later saying the player was stable and awake much to the relief of teammates and fans.
"there were many tears before the match (against russia).
it was very hard for me to focus," striker romelu lukaku, who plays with eriksen at italian champions inter milan, told belgian tv.
"it was very hard for me, for (eriksen's former tottenham hotspur teammates) toby (alderweireld), for jan (vertonghen), for nacer (chadli).
we know him very well.
"i am happy with our victory, but our thoughts are with christian.
i just hope he gets well soon.
his children need him, we need him.
"lukaku had already paid tribute to his clubmate during the match, after scoring the first of his two goals, calling out "chris, stay strong, mate, love you", to a television camera.
defender alderweireld, who played with eriksen for years at ajax amsterdam and then spurs, said the team heard the news during their final preparations in their hotel.
"a few of us consider eriksen a friend.
nobody was thinking about our match at all", he said.
belgium coach roberto martinez said his team had given a solid performance, despite failing to score more goals in a tepid second half.
"there were many positive aspects, especially to keep a clean sheet, he said.
"it's very important to be able to defend with the ball, to impose ourselves so we can hurt the opposition.
we did that.
we could have scored a few more, but it was very important to keep a clean sheet.
"on the downside, martinez said euro 2020 was already over for leicester city defender timothy castagne, who left the game in the first half with a broken eye socket after a clash of heads with daler kuzyayev.
"he will probably need surgery, he will be out of the euros", he added.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
baku: a header from towering kieffer moore claimed a point for wales in a 1-1 draw with switzerland in baku on saturday (jun 12) to start both teams' euro 2020 campaigns.
moore responded to breel embolo's second-half opener with a quarter of an hour remaining.
both sides trail group a leaders italy, who beat turkey 3-0 in friday's tournament curtain-raiser.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia moenchengladbach's breel embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding 1.
95 metre-tall moore who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
embolo sparks to lifethey broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:46 am myt

belgium's romelu lukaku celebrates scoring their third goal against russia at the gazprom arena, saint petersburg june 12, 2021.
— reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
saint petersburg, june 13 — belgium striker romelu lukaku sent a message of support to his stricken inter milan team-mate christian eriksen after scoring, as his double helped the red devils open their euro 2020 campaign with a 3-0 win over russia on saturday.
lukaku gave belgium an early lead in saint petersburg, then shouted "chris, chris, stay strong — i love you" into a pitchside camera during the celebration for his opening goal.
his club team-mate eriksen is recovering in hospital in copenhagen after collapsing on the pitch during extraordinary scenes which overshadowed denmark's 1-0 home defeat by finland in saturday's earlier group b game.
substitute thomas meunier doubled belgium's lead on 34 minutes before lukaku put the result beyond doubt with a late second goal.
belgium, the world's top-ranked team, are under pressure to deliver at the european championship as some pundits claim this is roberto martinez's last chance to win a title with an ageing squad.
yet even with manchester city playmaker kevin de bruyne and borussia dortmund midfielder axel witsel sidelined by injury, belgium were too strong for russia.
the hosts got off to a bad start when andrei semenov failed to deal with a cross by dries mertens in the build-up to the opening goal.
the ball fell to lukaku, who span away and drove his shot into the bottom far corner on 10 minutes.
belgium's timothy castagne and russia's daler kuzyaev had to be helped off following a nasty clash of heads which saw both players substituted.
meunier, castagne's replacement at right-back, grabbed belgium's second by slotting home the rebound after his dortmund team-mate thorgan hazard swung in a cross which anton shunin failed to hold.
it stayed 2-0 at the break, but russia raised the tempo in the second half as roman zobnin fired over the belgian goal.
real madrid star eden hazard replaced mertens for the final 18 minutes to lift the belgian attack.
with two minutes left, lukaku swept meunier's pass into the russian net to claim his 20th goal in his last 15 international games.
before kick-off, the belgium team were booed for taking a knee to highlight racial injustice, while their russian opponents stood.
jeers echoed around the krestovsky stadium as the entire belgian team, as well as spanish referee antonio mateu lahoz, knelt, while lukaku, whose parents come from the democratic republic of congo, raised his right fist.
england have said they will do the same for their opening game of the european championship against croatia on sunday.
ex-nfl quarterback colin kaepernick started kneeling to protest against racial injustice in 2016. the gesture has become a familiar sight across a range of sports since george floyd, who was black, was killed by a white police officer in the united states last year.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
home  all the news  belgium 3-0 russia: lukaku brace seals red devils windate published: saturday 12th june 2021 10:02                 news desk belgium started euro 2020 with a 3-0 win over russia with romelu lukaku dedicating the first of two goals to inter milan team-mate christian eriksen.
the group b fixture had appeared in doubt when the other match in the group between denmark and finland – taking place two hours earlier – was suspended after eriksen collapsed in the first half.
a lengthy delay occurred but after the inter playmaker was able to regain consciousness and was taken to hospital, where he is in a stable position, the first match in the group resumed and belgium were able to take on russia, which ended in a routine victory for roberto martinez's men.
semi-finalists at the world cup in russia three years ago, belgium went top of the group thanks to a brace by lukaku that sandwiched thomas meunier's goal.
26 – romelu lukaku has been directly involved in 26 goals in his last 19 appearances for belgium in all competitions, scoring 22 and assisting four.
phenomenal.
#euro2020 #bel #rus pic.
twitter.
com/eukrmlzzav— optajoe (@optajoe) june 12, 2021eden hazard was left on the bench in st petersburg and there was an unsavoury start when the belgium players were booed as they took the knee before kick-off.
lukaku was able to respond in the perfect fashion after 10 minutes when he put the number one ranked team in the world ahead.
dries mertens' cross was not dealt with by andrey semenov and former everton and manchester united striker lukaku fired the ball in with his left foot before he grabbed the pitchside camera saying, "chris, i love you" in a message to team-mate eriksen.
a nasty clash of heads between timothy castagne and daler kuzyaev resulted in both being substituted midway through the first half and it was the former's replacement who made it 2-0. thorgan hazard's ball into the area was pushed out into a dangerous position by russia goalkeeper anton shunin and substitute meunier slotted home from 10 yards.
it had not been a good half for stanislav cherchesov's team and he was forced into another change when former chelsea player yuri zhirkov limped off before the break.
russia came out with more intent after the interval but despite using all five of their substitutions by the 63rd minute, including taking off kuzyaev's replacement denis chershev, thibaut courtois remained largely untroubled in the belgian goal.
captain eden hazard was able to play the final 18 minutes and there was time for the goalscorers to combine for a third.
meunier played lukaku through on goal and he drilled the ball low into the corner for his second of the night to ensure one of the favourites started on a positive note.
it took a long time for jordan henderson to be appreciated at liverpool.
the wait goes on with england.
finland's first ever tournament win was overshadowed by eriksen's collapse.
he is thankfully in a stable condition.
none of those players or officials should have been asked to play on so soon after fearing for christian eriksen's life.
.
.
uefa have announced belgium versus russia will go ahead despite worrying scenes in the other group b tie.
follow it here.
.
.
wales kept their qualification hopes alive by avoiding defeat to switzerland in their opening game.
robert page said the draw with switzerland 'felt like a win'.
a passive point might not look so good later in the group.
.
.
any man who can mellow roy keane while bringing some much-needed sunshine into all our lives is alright by johnny.
.
.
no longer is the english game "all about heart".
foden is king of a new breed that would suit other countries.
arsenal want a fairly young deep-lying playmaker with premier league experience to replace xhaka.
righto.
with added buendia, brentford, norwich and watford.
would you back anyone but chelsea and city to go again this summer?
it took a long time for jordan henderson to be appreciated at liverpool.
the wait goes on with england.
update your browser to view this website correctly.
update my browser now×
we use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from.
to learn more or opt-out, read our cookie policy.
please also read our privacy notice and terms of use, which became effective december 20, 2019. by choosing i accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.
filed under:the liverpool player delivered a great corner kick that was headed home by breel embolo.
harry wilson and neco williams were unused substitutes for wales.
the eufa euro 2020 tournament (being played in 2021) is finally in full swing, with saturday being the first full day of matches.
there was a large contingent of liverpool players suiting up for their national teams in the first match of the day as switzerland took on wales.
xherdan shaqiri started for switzerland, while harry wilson and neco williams were both named to the bench for wales.
shaqiri played in the hole behind haris sefervic and breel embolo.
the vertically challenged dynamo was a creative spark for his side, leading the team with four key passes, including an assist for switzerland's only goal on the day.
shaqiri delivered a driven corner kick that was headed home by embolo.
shaqiri assist, embolo goal, #sui 1-0 up pic.
twitter.
com/bqq48mgomlshaqiri was subbed off in the 66th minute with his team leading 1-0.  it was a good showing for the player who is likely auditioning for a transfer.
wales, for their part, would manage to claw a goal back in the 74th minute to earn a 1-1 draw.
both harry wilson and neco williams were unused substitutes.
in the next round of group a, wales will take on turkey in baku, while switzerland will have the difficult task of trying to get points off of italy in rome.
copenhagen: denmark star christian eriksen was awake in hospital, the danish football union said on saturday, after he collapsed on the pitch during the euro 2020 game against finland in copenhagen.
"christian eriksen is awake and is undergoing further tests" at the hospital, the danish federation said on twitter, after the player was carried off the field having received cpr by medical personnel.
a reuters photographer at the game saw eriksen raise his hand as he was carried from the pitch on a stretcher.
eriksen collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline.
teammates martin braithwaite and thomas delaney rushed to assist him, with delaney beckoning furiously for medical assistance.
the midfielder's teammates formed a ring around him as medics pumped his chest just before halftime in their group b clash with the finns.
both teams subsequently left the field with officials holding up sheets to hide the stricken player from view.
"the uefa euro 2020 match in copenhagen has been suspended due to a medical emergency," uefa said in a short statement.
about half an hour later, the organisation tweeted that eriksen "has been transferred to the hospital and has been stabilised".
"a crisis meeting has taken place with both teams and match officials," it added.
the match restarted at 2.
30am singapore time.
uefa said that it had agreed to restart the match "following the request made by players of both teams".
finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
eriksen was later able to speak to his teammates.
"we've been in contact with him, and the players have spoken to christian.
that's the great news.
he's doing fine, and they are playing the game for him," dbu director peter moeller told danish television.
eriksen was voted man of the match in a gesture of support.
"moments like this put everything in life into perspective," said uefa president aleksander ceferin.
the previously raucous crowd at the parken stadium in the danish capital fell silent after the 29-year-old fell to the ground near the end of the opening period, with his teammates gathering around him.
team doctor morten boesen said at the press conference that eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage on the pitch.
after around 15 minutes eriksen was stretchered off the field followed by the rest of the denmark team, while finland's players also left the pitch.
the fans in the stadium, who were celebrating the chance to see their national team again live at the stadium, sat silently in their seats waiting for news of eriksen's condition to filter through.
however soon after stadium-wide chants of "christian" and "eriksen" from both sets of supporters began to ring out as his status began to filter through to supporters.
they were brought to their feet when stadium announcers said that eriksen was "stable".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
denmark's christian eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch after collapsing on saturday in his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland but was able to speak before being taken to hospital, team doctor morten boesen said.
eriksen was surrounded by his teammates while being treated on the pitch and then stretchered away.
the game was eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later after news came through that he had regained consciousness.
"we were called onto the field when christian collapsed.
he was lying on his side when we approached him and there was respiration and pulse," boesen told a news conference after the game, which finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
"but that picture changed and he then received life-saving cardiac massage.
we quickly got help from the stadium doctor and we got christian back," he said.
"christian spoke to me before he was taken to the hospital," said boesen.
denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players had been too overwhelmed by the incident to finish the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand said at the news conference.
players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday, hjulmand said, adding there had been no pressure from uefa to finish the match on saturday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer who plays for milan in italy, were too upset to finish the game, he said.
"simon kjaer was deeply, deeply touched.
he was in doubt whether he could continue and gave it a shot, but ultimately he couldn't.
i completely understand that," hjulmand said.
a hush fell over the crowd of 16,000 fans while eriksen received treatment on the pitch, and outside bars around central copenhagen people gathered, many in tears, while the player's condition remained unclear.
hjulmand said the players came together in the dressing room, supporting each other and allowing themselves to show their emotions.
"i cannot be more proud of this group of people who take such good care of each other at this time, when a loved one is fighting for his life," he said.
"it was a very tough night and we were all reminded what's the most important in life. "
singapore: singapore fell to a third straight loss in its second round world cup qualifying campaign on saturday (jun 12) with a 3-0 defeat by saudi arabia in riyadh.
with this defeat, singapore have conceded 12 goals in three matches in group d since the resumption of its joint qualification campaign for the 2022 world cup in qatar and the 2023 asian cup in china, scoring none in reply.
a5-0 defeat to uzbekistanon monday followed a4-0 loss to palestinelast week.
following the rout against the uzbeks, the lions made three changes to their starting lineup and showed an improved defensive performance against the saudis in the first half, with the match goalless at half-time.
saudi arabia's salem al-dawsari broke the deadlock in the 83rd minute with a right-footed shot from the edge of the 6-yard box.
three minutes later, fahad al-muwallad made it 2-0 before sahel al-shehri finished off proceedings in the sixth minute of stoppage time.
also in group d, uzbekistan pipped yemen 1-0 to keep the pressure on the saudis.
the table-toppers will be decided next week when both teams square off in riyadh.
the top-placed team from the eight second-round groups and the four best runners-up will progress to the third round of 2022 world cup qualifiers.
they will also qualify for the 2023 asian cup.
"today, our boys did very well and i am proud of them," said singapore coach tatsuma yoshida, whose remarks were carried on the football association of singaporewebsite.
"we changed our formation and they followed some (new) strategies .
.
.
it was fantastic, but saudi arabia are very strong.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
12 june 2021
two tournament dark horses bring plenty of talent to euro 2020robert page's welsh side kick off their euro 2020 group a campaign this afternoon against switzerland as they look to emulate their superb last showing in a major tournament.
read on for your guide to watching a wales vs switzerland live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the welsh enjoyed an incredible run in france five years ago where they beat tournament favourites belgium before eventually being beaten by tournament winners portugal in the semi-final.
date: saturday, june 12kick-off time: 2pm bst / 3pm cet / 9am et / 6am pt / 11pm aest / 1am nzst (sun)venue: baku olympic stadium, baku, azerbaijanfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freewhile their warm-up preparations for euro 2020 haven't been ideal they were beaten by france, albeit with ten men and then failed to break down a battling albanian side in cardiff a team that possesses the attacking threat of gareth bale , and aaron ramsey should not be discounted.
the swiss come into this tournament in excellent form, having won their last six matches, the most recent victory an emphatic 7-0 thrashing of liechtenstein.
much of their hopes for this tournament may rest on striker haris seferovic who has been in sparkling form for benfica this season.
read on for how to watch an wales vs switzerland live stream for free today.
in the uk, this euro 2020 clash between wales and switzerland is being shown on bbc one along with welsh-language channel s4c.
coverage on both channels starts at 1.
15pm bst, with kick-off set to follow at 2pm bst.
you can also live stream both channel's coverage of wales vs switzerland for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this game.
kick-off stateside is at 9am et / 6am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream wales vs switzerland directly through the espn website.
how to watch wales vs switzerland without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 11pm aest.
an optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
wales vs switzerland will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a wales vs switzerland live stream, with kick-off set for 9am et / 6am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
kick off time for wales vs switzerland in new zealand is at a somewhat inconvenient 7am nzst on sunday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.

glenn price

@glennprice94


                                    xherdan shaqiri provided an assist as switzerland opened their euro 2020 campaign by drawing 1-1 with wales on saturday.
the liverpool attacker's corner was headed in by breel embolo early in the second half, before he was then withdrawn in the 66th minute.
but the group a encounter ended in a draw thanks to kieffer moore's equaliser, with harry wilson and neco williams both unused substitutes for wales.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen (reuters) denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players were too overwhelmed with emotion to finish their opening euro 2020 match against finland on saturday (june 12), after teammate christian eriksen collapsed on the pitch and was rushed to the hospital.
eriksen was surrounded by his teammates while being treated on the pitch and then stretchered away.
the game was eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later after news came through that he had regained consciousness.
finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand told a press conference after the game.
players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday, hjulmand said, adding there had been no pressure from uefa to finish the match on saturday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer who plays for milan in italy, were too upset to finish the game, he said.
"simon kjaer was deeply, deeply touched.
he was in doubt whether he could continue and gave it a shot, but ultimately he couldn't.
i completely understand that," hjulmand said.
a hush fell over the crowd of 16,000 fans while eriksen received treatment on the pitch, and outside bars around central copenhagen people gathered, many in tears, while the player's condition remained unclear.
hjulmand said the players came together in the dressing room, supporting each other and allowing themselves to show their emotions.
"i cannot be more proud of this group of people who take such good care of each other at this time, when a loved one is fighting for his life," he said.
"it was a very tough night and we were all reminded what's the most important in life.
"team doctor morten boesen said at the press conference that eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage on the pitch.
boesen added that he talked with eriksen before he was taken to the hospital, while soccer officials said the player's condition was stable.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 07:59												writer: 
															reuterscopenhagen: finland's 1-0 win over denmark in their european championship opener on saturday will be remembered for several reasons, coach markku kanerva said after their historic result was overshadowed by denmark's christian eriksen terrifying health scare.
playing in their first ever major international tournament, finland claimed a shock 1-0 win after striker joel pohjanpalo headed home the winner on the hour, while keeper lucas hradecky saved a penalty in the 73rd minute.
finland had only that one attempt on goal, compared with denmark's 22 shots on goal at the parken stadium.
"it was a very emotional night for us," kanerva said.
"first time in a major tournament and an opening game against denmark in their home stadium.
when we heard the national anthems, it was very emotional for us.
"and then what happened with christian eriksen a very dramatic and sad incident.
"and then finally, we get a good result from the game.
of course i am happy for that.
unbelievable, we are going to remember this for a long time for different reasons.
"eriksen required cpr and emergency medical treatment after collapsing on the pitch, leading to the match being suspended for an hour and 45 minutes before it was restarted.
the 29-year-old was rushed to hospital where his condition was stabilised.
the danes were clearly affected by the trauma of eriksen's collapse, with some wiping away tears before the restart.
finland's pohjanpalo also refused to celebrate after scoring the winner.
"i said to them that i understood the emotions of the game and how they would feel after what had happened to christian," kanerva added.
"i said to them, 'try to focus as much as you can on the game'.
i said 'i know it will be difficult to do that', but they coped really well.
"heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.
italy kicked off the european championship in emphatic style on saturday morning (june 12, singapore time) as they delivered a commanding performance to sweep past toothless turkey 3-0 at the stadio olimpico in rome and stamp their early authority on group a. after a goalless first half, an own goal and strikes by ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne were just reward for the home side, who played with relentless positivity from the start.
their dispiriting failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup looked a distant memory as they stretched their unbeaten run to 28 matches in a buoyant atmosphere.
they were helped by a flat display from turkey, who lost their fifth consecutive opening match of a european championship and barely mustered a worthwhile attack all night.
"it was important to start well here in rome and it is a joy for us and for all the italians," said coach roberto mancini.
"we produced a good performance and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams.
"switzerland and wales, who meet in the group's second game in baku on saturday, always knew italy were the group favourites but the size of their task has suddenly looked somewhat bigger.
after a build-up featuring a spine-tingling rendition of nessun dorma by opera singer andrea bocelli – channelling thoughts of italia '90 – a spectacular fireworks display and a typically raucous rendition of italy's national anthem, the 16,000-strong crowd was in fine voice by kick-off.
they were given plenty to cheer too as italy made all the early running against a turkish team happy to sit deep and invite pressure.
however, mancini's side were left frustrated in their efforts to break through the wall of red shirts.
giorgio chiellini had a header tipped over with a spectacular one-handed save by ugurcan cakir and immobile nodded a cross wide as italy went in at the break with 14 attempts to none from turkey – but without a goal.
they kept probing and their patience was rewarded when berardi fired a cross into the six-yard box where demiral chested the ball into the net – the first time in a european championship that the tournament's opening goal was an own goal.
the ever-dangerous leonardo spinazzola had a shot beaten away and manuel locatelli's low effort was palmed wide before immobile doubled italy's lead by pouncing on cakir's parry from another spinazzola effort to neatly knock in the rebound.
the azzurri's dominance was rewarded again when immobile threaded a pass to insigne, who placed a precise finish into the bottom corner with 11 minutes remaining.
it marked the first time italy had scored three goals in a match at the euros at their 39th attempt and capped a perfect start.
mancini had told his players they should enjoy themselves and seek to entertain and that was exactly what they did for a jubilant home crowd.
there was only gloom in the visiting camp as veteran coach senol gunes, who led turkey to third place at the 2002 world cup, apologised for the performance.
"i was expecting a better game, and i am disappointed and we are sorry," he said.
"italy totally controlled the game.
"on june 16, italy face switzerland in rome and turkey take on wales in baku in the second round of group a games.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
denmark midfielder christian eriksen, who was hospitalised after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opener against finland on saturday (jun 12), had no prior heart issues during his time with premier league club tottenham hotspur, his former cardiologist said.
eriksen, 29, collapsed in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in and was given life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch, with officials later saying that the player was stable and awake.
dr sanjay sharma of st.  george's university of london said eriksen had returned normal tests since 2013, but the sight of the inter milan playmaker falling to the ground had briefly raised concerns that doctors had missed something.
"i thought, 'oh my god?
is there something there that we didn't see?'
but i have looked at all the test results and everything looked perfect," sharma told the mail on sunday.
"from the day we signed him, it was my job to screen him and we tested him every year.
so certainly his tests up to 2019 were completely normal, with no obvious underlying cardiac fault.
i can vouch for that because i did the tests.
"former bolton wanderers midfielder fabrice muamba said that eriksen's collapse brought back painful memories of his cardiac arrest on the pitch in an fa cup match in 2012.  the ex-england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
"it brought back stuff that i have put down in me, this emotion that's down there.
to watch it from that distance and not know what was going to happen," muamba told the bbc.
"it was scary, but credit to the medical staff.
they have done an amazing job on christian.
i like how his team mates got together to protect him.
"i hope things turn out to be ok for him.
i hope he will come through.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
italy star ciro immobile basked in his goal against turkey on friday as he and his team-mates embraced fans returning to the stands after more than a year of battling the coronavirus.
immobile scored the second of italy's goals, leading the way in a 3-0 win that also included a finish from lorenzo insigne and an unfortunate own goal from merih demiral.
italy's euro 2020-opening win came at the stadio olimpico, home of immobile's club team lazio, making the striker's goal even sweeter.
"seeing the fans celebrate after all this time was wonderful, we finally got to come together after so long of this damned virus," immobile told rai sport.
"i think we showed patience this evening.
turkey are a strong side and caused problems for many top teams.
we tried to tire them out in the first half, moving the ball left and right, trying to spread them.
"unfortunately, we regularly hit their brick wall, especially as we're not that good in the air.
turkey were more tired after the break, and after the goal they had to open up some spaces, so that's when our quality emerged.
"scoring a goal on the euros debut in my stadium, it doesn't get better.
"immobile wasn't the only one moved by friday's match, as man of the match leonardo spinazzola admitted it was an emotional day.
italy was one of the countries hit hardest by the coronavirus over the last year, and seeing fans in the stadium once again was something special to the italy defender.
"the emotions started on the bus towards the stadium, seeing all the people in the streets.
it really did give us goosebumps," he told sky sport italia.
"it was a perfect performance.
we were patient, we moved the ball around well.
then afterwards i saw my son in the stands, it was emotional. "
italy kickstarted the tournament in style with the 3-0 win in what was their first ever three-goal performance at the euros.
the azzurri are seen by many as a contender to make a deep run into the tournament, although they haven't received the same attention as some of the other tournament favourites.
friday's result will no doubt give them some momentum heading through the rest of the group stages and perhaps even into the knockout rounds going forward.
"when you start this adventure, you need some tension, some goosebumps, the desire to get out there.
i imagined it'd be like this because of the path we took to get here," defender leonardo bonucci told sky sport italia.
"now this is the first in a long journey, so we keep our feet on the ground, as it's going to be a run of very close games, the opponents will get to know us better, but we know that we can have our say.
"with people around us in the stands, it's a whole other style of football.
they keep our hearts aflame throughout the match.
"now from tomorrow let's cancel out the negative, take the positive and prepare for the next match. "
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
aatif sulleyman
12 june 2021
can messi finally get his hands on america's cup?
lionel messi, neymar and luis suarez headline an ensemble of the world's top footballing talents as they strive to lead their respective countries to 2021 copa america glory over the next four weeks.
read on to find out how to watch a copa america 2021 live stream from anywhere.
dates: june 13 july 11, 2021free copa america 2021 live stream: bbc iplayer (uk)global live streams: fox sports via fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | univision (can) | spark sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freepão e circo are the order of the day in covid-crippled brazil, which brushed aside international condemnation to accept hosting duties, after deadly political unrest and a worsening health crisis deemed colombia and argentina unsuitable.
football fans will be keeping their fingers crossed that off-field problems don't overshadow what should be a celebration of sport, but may end up as one of the most controversial events ever.
in normal times, the copa america is one of football's most spectacular festivals and a tournament that's been traditionally dominated by the big three: uruguay (15 titles), argentina (14) and brazil (9).
and like euro 2020 on the other side of the atlantic, it has been eagerly awaited.
the seleção are the defending champions, with everton, gabriel jesus and richarlison having fired brazil to victory over peru in the final two years ago.
incredibly, messi has never lifted america's cup, having tasted defeat in three finals, the last of which pushed him to an early, albeit temporary, international retirement.
copa america has become an obsession for la albiceleste, who haven't won the tournament in 28 years.
here's how to live stream copa america 2021 from anywhere not forgetting how to watch every game of copa america for free.
there are loads of options for watching a free copa america live stream.
as usual, football fans in the uk are extremely lucky on this front, with all the games being shown by national broadcaster bbc on its free-to-watch  iplayer streaming service.
elsewhere the likes of televisión pública in argentina, sbt in brazil, canal 13 in chile, and américa televisión in peru will also be carrying some free coverage throughout the tournament.
scroll down for all the ways you can watch copa america online in a number of countries around the world.
but first, you should know that if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you probably won't be able to watch the footy like you normally would at home.
this is because of geo-blocking, a digital restriction that means certain streaming services are only accessible in the region they're based in.
don't sweat it, though, as you've got the option of using a vpn to tune to your preferred coverage wherever you are.
use a vpn to live stream copa america 2021 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've taken the time to try out all the biggest vpn providers and we found expressvpn to be the best of the bunch.
it works with lots of devices and offers super fast connections across its many servers.
it's compatible with loads of devices including ios, android, amazon fire stick, playstation, apple tv and such, and we found it secure, speedy and simple-to-use.
throw in its robust security features, and expressvpn is the best all-round vpn for streaming and perhaps best of all, it has a 30-day money back guarantee plus 3 months free when you subscribe for a year.
once you've downloaded the software, just follow the prompts to install it then select the location you want to relocate your ip address to it really is that easy.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysremember, there are loads of benefits to using a vpn beyond just helping you regain access to streaming services and content from abroad.
one of the biggest is security: by using encrypted tunnels, vpns give you a robust first-line of defense against cybercriminals and government snooping.
this makes everyday tasks like online shopping and banking much safer, and many people choose to use one for that reason alone.
the great news for football fans based in the uk is that you can watch copa america free online for every single game of the tournament!if you're not in front of a tv, you can stream all of the action on bbc iplayer.
as a national broadcaster, it doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
you can also watch every single match via the red button.
kick-off times vary, but all of the action takes place late at night, with the early games set to begin at 10pm bst, and the latest at 2am bst.
not in the uk for copa america?
no worries residents of the country can just download and install a vpn to port themselves back home to a uk location, then watch live as normal.
soccer fans based in the us can tune in to copa america on fox sports.
if you get the channel as part of your cable package, you can also watch the action unfold on fox sports' streaming platform, though you'll have to enter your cable provider's credentials.
not got cable?
there are plenty of over-the-top tv streaming services you can use too.
of the many options, we think sling tv is the best fit for most soccer fans' needs, with its blue package offering fox sports.
sling blue usually costs $35 per month, but new subscribers can get a fantastic bargain right now you can save big bucks with this sling tv deal, which lets you get a whole month of sling blue for $10.
another great option is fubotv, an even more comprehensive streamer that also offers fox sports channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month, but there's a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
spanish-language coverage is also available in the us via tudn and univision.
and remember, if you're abroad right now you can use a vpn to tune into your home subscription service, no matter where you are in the world.
in australia, there's only one place to tune into copa america 2021, with optus sport set to show all of the action from the tournament.
optus coverage can be streamed via mobile and tablet with the channel's app, while cord-cutters can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
you can sign up to optus sport on the service's website here.
kick-off times vary, but most of the action takes place before noon, with the early games set to begin at 7am aest, and the latest at 11am bst.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
it's cable for soccer fans in canada, with spanish-language channel univision showing the copa america action in the great white north.
kick-offs are timed conveniently, with the early games set to begin at 5pm et / 2pm pt, and the latest at 9pm et / 6pm pt.
premium streaming service spark sport has the exclusive rights to copa america in new zealand.
and because spark sport offers a 1-month free trial to new users, you can tune in for free.
after that, a subscription costs $24.
99 per month, and includes plenty of black caps action, as well as nba basketball, f1 racing, and motogp.
kick-off times vary, but most of the action takes place in the late morning and early afternoon, with the early games set to begin at 9am nzst, and the latest at 1pm nzst.
group agroup ball times bst.
group stage (june 13-29 2021)sunday, june 13 2021monday, june 14 2021tuesday, june 15 2021thursday, june 17 2021friday, june 18 2021saturday, june 19 2021sunday, june 20 2021monday, june 21 2021tuesday, june 22 2021wednesday, june 23 2021thursday, june 24 2021friday, june 25 2021sunday, june 27 2021tuesday, june 29 2021knockout stage (july 2-11 2021)quarter-finalsfriday, july 2 2021saturday, july 3 2021sunday, july 4 2021semi-finalstuesday, july 6 2021wednesday, july 7 2021third-place playoff1am, saturday, july 10 20211am, sunday, july 11 2021sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
by stefano pozzebon, cnnupdated 1455 gmt (2255 hkt) june 12, 2021 bogota, colombia (cnn)the copa america, south america's premier football competition, due to kick off june 13 in the brazilian capital of brasilia, is triggering a wave of strong reactions for a sporting event.
rodrigo pedroso contributed to this report from são paulo.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 08:00												writer: 
															reutersst petersburg: romelu lukaku struck twice as belgium confirmed their status as one of the favourites for euro 2020 with a confident 3-0 victory over russia on saturday.
despite being without key performer kevin de bruyne, world number one ranked belgium were rarely in trouble against a russia side that struggled to impose themselves.
roberto martinez's belgium top group b on three points, ahead on goal difference of finland who beat denmark in the group's other game in copenhagen.
the red devils are unbeaten in 10 games in all competitions and have suffered just one defeat in their last 24 outings.
they have also scored in each of their last 31 games.
the visitor's grabbed the lead in the 10th minute when andrei semyonov failed to deal with a ball into the box from leander dendoncker, and lukaku turned and fired into the bottom corner.
lukaku celebrated his goal by running to the television camera and shouting "chris, chris, i love you" in tribute to christian eriksen, the danish midfielder and his club team-mate at inter milan, who had been rushed to hospital after collapsing during the earlier game in the group.
belgium were calm in possession and finding plenty of time and space against a russia side who struggled to get a firm grip on the game.
the russians reached the quarter-finals in the world cup they hosted in 2018 but the energy of those performances was missing, despite playing at home in front of more than 26,000 fans.
stanislav cherchesov struggled to find either the tempo to their attacks or a way to provide quality service to striker artem dzyuba who was too often left isolated.
it was no surprise when the second goal came, in the 34th minute, when russia keeper anton shunin could only parry thorgan hazard's shot towards thomas meunier, who made no mistake.
russia applied some pressure after the interval but the beligans coped without too much panic and the game already felt decided before lukaku wrapped up the win with a well-taken effort after racing on to a through ball from meunier.
lukaku said the eriksen situation had left him in tears before the game.
"i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spent more time with him than with my family," he said.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family," he added.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with christian.
i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him," added the former manchester united striker.
cherchesov conceded his team had struggled after falling behind to lukaku's opener.
"our tournament is continuing.
we are doing our job.
we chose our system, it worked partly but then started to break down.
the belgians scored and then it was difficult to get the ball off them.
"the russians host finland on wednesday and will need to quickly get their campaign on track.
"we will get out of the situation.
we put ourselves there, so we must now get out of it," cherchesov added.
lukaku and the belgian team had taken the knee before the kick-off but the anti-racist gesture was met with jeers and whistles from the crowd.
heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.
rome:     roberto mancini might be laughing now, but the italy coach will not find it so easy to play down his team's chances of winning euro 2020 if they continue like they started.
the azzurri put in a dominant, swashbuckling display as they flattened turkey 3-0 in rome's stadio olimpico on friday to start their campaign in style.
the victory marked their 28th consecutive game without defeat, leaving mancini two games away from equalling double world cup winning manager vittorio pozzo's all-time unbeaten record from the 1930s.
but when asked if his side were now among the tournament favourites, mancini laughed.
"it was important to start well here in rome and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams," he said.
the second part of mancini's answer showed that while he does not want his players to face the pressure that comes with being favourites, his ambition is nevertheless to reach the final in six games' time.
that does not seem like an unlikely proposition after an opening day performance that could not have gone much better, as all of mancini's big selection decisions paid off.
"italy were almost perfect, dominating possession and creating a lot of chances without ever leaving themselves at risk," 2006 world cup winner alessandro del piero told sky italia.
the question of who should lead the line has long been a cause of debate in italy, but lazio striker ciro immobile answered his critics in his club's home stadium by scoring his first major tournament goal before setting up lorenzo insigne for italy's third.
leonardo spinazzola's selection at left back ahead of chelsea's emerson proved to be a great call as the as roma man also shone on a familiar pitch, earning the man of the match award after terrorising the turks' right flank for 90 minutes.
domenico berardi was preferred to federico chiesa on the right wing and was heavily involved; his awkward cross led to merih demiral's own goal to calm any italian nerves.
by fulltime, the azzurri had scored three goals in a european championship match for the first time and all of mancini's decisions were justified.
it was a magical night for the italians present in the 16,000-strong crowd, and the anger and disappointment of the failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup is now a distant memory.
based on the opening day evidence, mancini will not be able to laugh off italy's title-winning credentials for long.
(reporting by alasdair mackenzie; editing by christian radnedge)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
rome: italy kicked off the european championship with a convincing 3-0 victory over turkey in group a at the olympic stadium on friday (jun 11) with ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne on target.
roberto mancini's side had been frustrated by turkey's defensive approach in the first half but broke through in the 53rd minute when a hard-hit cross from domenico berardi flew in off turkey defender merih demiral for an own goal.
the azzurri, now unbeaten in 28 matches, doubled their lead in the 66th when leonardo spinazzola's drive was parried by turkey goalkeeper ugurcan cakir but immobile reacted well to slot home the loose ball.
insigne made it 3-0 in the 79th minute with a confident, curling finish after some sloppy defending from the disappointing turks.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
a spectacular sound and light show and fireworks preceded kick-off for the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries having been delayed for a year because of the coronavirus pandemic.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
switzerland and wales face each in the group's second game in baku on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
rome: italy will face stronger opposition than turkey at euro 2020 but a commanding3-0 win in the tournament's opening matchin front of their own fans on friday suggests the azzurri have all the ingredients to go far.
the outcome was fitting reward for roberto mancini's side who stretched their unbeaten run to 28 games with an impressive performance while also keeping another clean sheet, their 12th in the last 13 games.
mancini, who took over after italy failed to qualify for the 2018 world cup, has transformed a dull and predictable-looking side into a potent unit whose three-pronged attack thrives alongside a creative midfield and formidable defence.
mancini has abandoned italy's conservative style of safety first and carved out an adventurous outfit whose approach based on crisp, one-touch passing secured 10 straight wins in qualifying, with 37 goals scored and four conceded.
a 4-0 win over the czech republic in their final warm-up last sunday turned out to be a taste of what was to come at the olympic stadium as mancini fielded an unchanged team against the turks and his men delivered again.
toothless turkey held on in the first half by defending with everyone behind the ball but the italians left the impression it was only a matter of time before the floodgates opened.
domenico berardi was a threat on the right flank all evening and there was only going to be one outcome after merih demiral turned the forward's cross into his own net in the 53rd minute.
with left back leonardo spinazzola doing damage on the other flank, turkey's defence, which conceded three goals in 10 qualifying games, looked all at sea and had no reply to italy's raids.
ciro immobile got his reward with a typically opportunist goal to make it 2-0 in the 66th minute before lorenzo insigne put the icing on the cake in the 79th with a fine shot past helpless goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
at the other end, the long-serving central defensive duo of giorgio chiellini and leonardo bonucci looked as comfortable as ever in keeping turkey's top scorer burak yilmaz at bay and breaking out to feed the midfield.
having scored three goals in one european championship match for the first time, italy's new-found confidence and commitment to attacking football looks likely to bear more fruit.
they will head into their remaining group a matches against switzerland and wales at the same venue buoyed by a display which delighted the home fans who will crave more of the same.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
11 june 2021
euro 2020 has arrived with an intriguing match-up in romedelayed by a mere 12 months, the wait is finally over as the travelling football roadshow that is euro 2020 gets under way at last this evening with this tasty-looking opening match in rome.
read on for your guide to watching a turkey vs italy live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
having missed the 2018 world cup, the azzurri will be keen to reassert themselves on the international stage with strong showing in this tournament.
date: friday, june 11kick-off time: 9pm cet / 8pm bst / 3pm et / 12pm pt / 5am aest / 7am nzstvenue: stadio olimpico, rome, italyfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freeroberto mancini's side will therefore be desperate to make a good start and have the advantage of starting the campaign on home turf, with this match taking place at  the iconic stadio olimpico in rome.
it's a tough tournament opener for the italians however, with turkey the epitome of an unpredictable opponent.
şenol güneş's side started the year in fine form with wins against european heavyweights the netherlands and norway in world cup 2022 qualifiers.
however, underwhelming performances against azerbaijan, guinea and moldova in the run up to euro 2020 place question marks over how far they'll progress in this tournament.
while italy won all 10 of their qualifying matches.
read on for how to watch an turkey v italy live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with today's opening match between turkey and italy being shown live on bbc1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, this opening match of euro 2020 between turkey and italy is being shown on bbc one.
coverage starts at 7pm bst and includes all the build up as well as the tournaments opening ceremony, with kick-off set to follow at 8pm bst.
you can also live stream turkey vs italy for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this opening game.
kick-off stateside is at 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream turkey vs italy directly through the espn website.
how to watch turkey vs italy without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 5am aest.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
turkey vs italy will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a turkey vs italy live stream, with kick-off set for 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with turkey vs italy set to start at 7am nzst on saturday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
by evan simko-bednarski, cnnupdated 0223 gmt (1023 hkt) june 12, 2021  (cnn)a cape cod lobster diver is safe friday, following a fluke encounter with a humpback whale that nearly made him the leviathan's lunch.
italy kicked off the european championship in emphatic style on saturday morning (june 12, singapore time) as they delivered a commanding performance to sweep past toothless turkey 3-0 at the stadio olimpico in rome and stamp their early authority on group a. after a goalless first half, an own goal and strikes by ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne were just reward for the home side, who played with relentless positivity from the start.
their dispiriting failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup looked a distant memory as they stretched their unbeaten run to 28 matches in a buoyant atmosphere.
they were helped by a flat display from turkey, who lost their fifth consecutive opening match of a european championship and barely mustered a worthwhile attack all night.
"it was important to start well here in rome and it is a joy for us and for all the italians," said coach roberto mancini.
"we produced a good performance and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams.
"switzerland and wales, who meet in the group's second game in baku on saturday, always knew italy were the group favourites but the size of their task has suddenly looked somewhat bigger.
after a build-up featuring a spine-tingling rendition of nessun dorma by opera singer andrea bocelli – channelling thoughts of italia '90 – a spectacular fireworks display and a typically raucous rendition of italy's national anthem, the 16,000-strong crowd was in fine voice by kick-off.
they were given plenty to cheer too as italy made all the early running against a turkish team happy to sit deep and invite pressure.
however, mancini's side were left frustrated in their efforts to break through the wall of red shirts.
giorgio chiellini had a header tipped over with a spectacular one-handed save by ugurcan cakir and immobile nodded a cross wide as italy went in at the break with 14 attempts to none from turkey – but without a goal.
they kept probing and their patience was rewarded when berardi fired a cross into the six-yard box where demiral chested the ball into the net – the first time in a european championship that the tournament's opening goal was an own goal.
the ever-dangerous leonardo spinazzola had a shot beaten away and manuel locatelli's low effort was palmed wide before immobile doubled italy's lead by pouncing on cakir's parry from another spinazzola effort to neatly knock in the rebound.
the azzurri's dominance was rewarded again when immobile threaded a pass to insigne, who placed a precise finish into the bottom corner with 11 minutes remaining.
it marked the first time italy had scored three goals in a match at the euros at their 39th attempt and capped a perfect start.
mancini had told his players they should enjoy themselves and seek to entertain and that was exactly what they did for a jubilant home crowd.
there was only gloom in the visiting camp as veteran coach senol gunes, who led turkey to third place at the 2002 world cup, apologised for the performance.
"i was expecting a better game, and i am disappointed and we are sorry," he said.
"italy totally controlled the game.
"on june 16, italy face switzerland in rome and turkey take on wales in baku in the second round of group a games.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
