Daily roundup: Hong Kong star Karen Mok comes under fire in China for wearing Dolce & Gabbana in music video — and other top stories today, Entertainment News.
singapore: more than half of the 18 new community covid-19 cases reported in singapore on monday (jun 14) are linked to a cluster at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
in its evening update, the ministry of health (moh) reported ten infections linked to the cluster, including two food stall vendors, a cooking assistant and a general worker at a food stall.
the other six cases linked to the bukit merah market cluster are: an it engineer at ibm (changi business park central 1), a student at ite college central, an unemployed woman, two retirees and a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre.
a total of 16 confirmed cases are now linked to the cluster at bukit merah view market.
the market has been closed since sunday and will remain so until tuesday to facilitate deep cleaning and to break potential transmission chains.
case 64184 clustersix other community cases were linked to case 64184, a male engineer who works at ecoxplore.
these include three cleaners who work at ascent (science park drive), eunike living and emerald park condominium.
the other three community cases linked to case 64184 are a student at amity global institute, an analyst at pinnacle credit services and a foreign domestic worker.
the total of 18 new community cases reported on monday is the highest daily number of locally transmitted infections reported in singapore since jun 3, when 35 community cases were reported.
one case was reported in a migrant workers' dormitory, a 26-year-old indian man who works as an electrician at gt engrg.
he lives at westlite juniper at 23 mandai estate.
the sole dormitory case is also a close contact of case 64184. one unlinked caseafter reporting two unlinked cases in its preliminary update, moh revised the number to one following epidemiological investigations.
the remaining 18 locally transmitted infections are linked to previous cases.
the sole unlinked case is a cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4, a 79-year-old singaporean man who is employed by ao servicepro.
there were also six imported cases, all of which had been placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in singapore.
three were returning singaporeans or permanent residents.
in all, singapore reported 25 new covid-19 infections on monday.
twenty-five more people were discharged, bringing the total number of fully recovered patients to 61,894. there are currently 138 cases in hospital, with two in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 235 have been isolated and are being cared for at community facilities.
new locations visited by community casestelok blangah food centre and three shopping malls were added to the list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
vivocity, ion orchard and excelsior shopping centre were also listed.
the full list of new locations is as follows:(image: moh)diy covid-19 test kits available from jun 16covid-19 antigen rapid test kits for self-testing will beavailable in pharmaciesfrom jun 16. these tests produce results in less than 20 minutes and detect the viral proteins in the nasal swab samples of infected people.
the tests are usually most accurate in the early stages of infection.
four self-test kits have received interim authorisation from the health sciences authority and will be sold at selected unity, watsons and guardian outlets.
the four test kits are: abbott panbio covid-19 antigen self-test, quickvue at-home otc covid-19 test, sd biosensor sars-cov-2 antigen self-test nasal and sd biosensor standard q covid-19 ag home test.
customers may purchase the test kits without a doctor's prescription but must first consult the in-store pharmacist.
as of monday, singapore has reported 62,301 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore long queues formed at the temporary covid-19 testing area set up at block 125a bukit merah view on tuesday (june 15), after the site was opened to residents.
set up on monday, the site was intended for the mandatory testing of about 85 stallholders at 116 bukit merah view after a new cluster formed at the nearby 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
as it turned out, many residents, including the elderly, had gone on monday for testing but were turned away.
on tuesday, the temporary testing site at block 125a opened up to residents after tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira made an appeal to the ministry of health (moh).
the site is open to residents until thursday.
when the straits times (st) visited block 125a's multi-purpose function hall at 10am on tuesday, two queues had formed.
one was for people who had made an appointment beforehand.
the second queue, for people who had not made an appointment, snaked past the estate's playground and spilled over to the nearby blocks.
about 120 people, mostly elderly residents, were in this queue.
the estimated wait time was one to two hours.
residents in the second queue were told to come back within the next two days as appointments for tuesday have been fully booked.
madam shanthi nadesan, 58, started queueing at 10am.
she had waited for at least an hour when she spoke to st.   she said she had made an appointment at raffles medical to get tested but decided to forgo it and have it done at block 125a instead.
"i spoke to the mp, ms joan pereira, and she said i don't have to go so far, i can just come here.
but i didn't expect to have to wait so long," said the former school librarian, who has yet to be vaccinated.
bukit merah resident simon lee, 65, had been in the queue since 9.
40am and was given a swab test about an hour later.
"they said we could just walk in, so since we are free, we just decided to queue," the taxi driver said.
mr lee, who was in the queue with his mother-in-law, wife and daughter, said he was not bothered by the waiting time.
"it shows that everyone is disciplined.
when called upon, we would do our part to be tested," he said.
a resident who wanted to be known only as madam teoh, 71, said she was prepared to wait for two hours to get tested.
"i rather come here because it's close to where i live," said the retiree, who lives at the nearby block 120.
"even if i don't queue today, i will have to queue tomorrow too," said madam teoh, who visited the bukit merah market and hawker centre every day before its temporary closure.
undergraduate germaine tan, 21, who made an appointment for a swab test at 10.
30am, joined the queue for those with bookings about five minutes before her scheduled timing.
she still had to wait in line, with about 20 others ahead of her.
"it's quite organised, because there's someone ushering the queue, so it's not so bad," said the third-year undergraduate from the singapore institute of management.
residents and members of the public who had visited either 115 bukit merah view market and food centre or shops at 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 were urged to go for a free covid-19 swab test.
staff and tenants who had been working at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre from may 25 have been quarantined and would be swabbed during quarantine.
staff and tenants who had been working in the nearby 116 bukit merah view from may 25 also had to go for their mandatory swabbing to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the covid-19 cluster at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre grew to 16 people yesterday, with 10 new cases linked to it.
the new cases, announced by the ministry of health (moh) last night, included a 94-year-old singaporean man who regularly goes to telok blangah parcview's active global active ageing hub.
the retiree developed a runny nose on june 6 and fever six days later on june 12 but did not seek medical attention.
as he is the family member of another case, he was quarantined on june 13.  he tested positive that same day.
a 21-year-old singaporean woman, who works as an it engineer at ibm in changi business park, is another new case.
a family member of two other covid-19 cases and a household contact of a third, she developed a runny nose and fever on june 12 but also did not seek medical attention.
she was quarantined on june 13 and reported her symptoms on the same day.
she also tested positive that day.
the other eight new cases in the cluster included a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre, an unemployed woman and several workers and assistants at the market and food centre as well as a 17-year-old student at ite college central, who had not been to school since may 16. a household contact of the unemployed woman, the student developed a fever and cough on june 11 and visited a general practitioner the next day, where he underwent an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
his art result was negative, but on june 13, his pcr test result was positive.
details about eight other cases in the community were also released last night, among them an unlinked one involving a 79-year-old singaporean employed by ao servicepro as a cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4. the man developed a runny nose on june 12 and diarrhoea and vomiting on june 13, and went to see a general practitioner on the same day.
he tested positive that day.
a 16-year-old student from anglo chinese school (independent), who was last in school on may 18, was among the remaining seven cases.
the singaporean student is asymptomatic and was quarantined on june 11 as he is a family member and household contact of a previous covid-19 case.
he tested positive on june 13. the other six community cases were part of the cluster linked to an engineer at ecoxplore, who was confirmed to be infected on june 12. one linked case in the dormitories was also reported yesterday.
the 26-year-old indian national works as an electrician at gt engrg and lives in westlite juniper dormitory in mandai.
he was a close contact of the engineer at ecoxplore.
the straits times25 new cases34 deaths17 community, linked138 in hospital1 community, unlinked62301 total cases6 imported61879 total recoveredget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
london: british prime minister boris johnson confirmed monday (jun 14) that the next planned relaxation of coronavirus restrictions in england will be delayed by four weeks, until jul 19, as a result of the spread of the delta variant.
in a press briefing, johnson voiced his confidence that he won't need to delay the plan to lift restrictions on social contact further, as millions more people get fully vaccinated against the virus.
he said that by jul 19, two-thirds of the british population will have been double-vaccinated.
"i think it is sensible to wait just a little longer," he said.
"now is the time to ease off the accelerator, because by being cautious now we have the chance in the next four weeks to save many thousands of lives by vaccinating millions more people.
"accompanying the decision to delay the easing, johnson said the government has brought forward the date by which everyone over the age of 18 will be offered a first dose of vaccine, from the end of july to jul 19.
"it's unmistakably clear the vaccines are working and the sheer scale of the vaccine rollout has made our position incomparably better than in previous waves," he said.
under the government's plan for coming out of lockdown, all restrictions on social contact were set to be lifted next monday.
many businesses, particularly those in hospitality and entertainment, voiced their disappointment ahead of the official announcement.
the delta variant first found in india is estimated by scientists advising the government to be between 40 per cent and 80 per cent more transmissible than the previous dominant strain.
it now accounts for more than 90 per cent of infections in the uk.
when johnson first outlined the government's four-stage plan for lifting the lockdown in england in february, he set jun 21 as the earliest date by which restrictions on people gathering would be lifted.
however, he stressed at the time that the timetable was not carved in stone and that all the steps would be driven by "data not dates" and would seek to be "irreversible".
the speed at which new coronavirus infections have been rising had piled the pressure on johnson to delay the reopening so more people can get vaccinated.
on monday, the british government reported 7,742 new confirmed cases, one of the highest daily numbers since the end of february.
daily infections have increased threefold over the past few weeks but are still way down from the nearly 70,000 daily cases recorded in january.
many blame the conservative government for the spike in infections, saying it acted too slowly to impose the strictest quarantine requirements on everyone arriving from india, which has endured a catastrophic resurgence of the virus.
across europe, many countries, including france, have tightened restrictions for british travelers to prevent the delta variant from spreading.
others, like spain, are allowing british tourists to arrive without being required to take a test if they have been fully vaccinated.
despite concerns about the delta variant, the uk's vaccine rollout has won plaudits as one of the world's speediest and most coherent.
as of monday, around 62 per cent of the british population had received one shot, while about 45 per cent had got two jabs.
the rapid rollout of vaccines and a strict months-long lockdown helped drive down the number of virus-related deaths in the uk in recent months.
despite that, the country has recorded nearly 128,000 virus-related deaths, more than any other nation in europe.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: a facebook post about the treatment of marine creatures by changi beach visitors recently has got wildlife enthusiasts riled up.
the post was shared in the singapore wildlife sightings facebook group by one of its members, ms daphne ting, who witnessed the happenings at changi beach on sunday (jun 13) morning while she was on an intertidal walk.
an intertidal walk is one that traverses the coastal area at the edge of land and sea that is submerged at high tide, but dry and exposed to air during low tide.
in the post, ms ting noted groups of beach goers, armed with shovels, tongs and pails, were digging up holes, "searching for these marine creatures and wrecking the entire shore".
among the creatures they collected were crabs, fish, shells, sea cucumbers, eels, jellyfish and sea anemone, ms ting said in her post.
"there were other beach goers who were very angry at this too.
but even after telling these people not to collect the marine life, they just walked away and continued collecting more," the 28-year-old wrote.
speaking to cna over the phone, ms ting added that she'd shared her post hoping someone would shed light on what can be done, as this was the first time she'd seen people collecting marine creatures "on a mass scale".
"when my boyfriend and i saw them collecting the creatures in the pail, we saw the way they handled the tongs.
they'd pick up soft creatures in a very rough manner.
if you were there, you'd also feel horrified at the way they handled the creatures," she told cna.
why the uproarsuch a sight is, unfortunately, common, according to marine biodiversity enthusiasts who spoke to cna.
"it's not that people aren't aware of these creatures, but they're unaware of how the creatures behave.
they don't know that putting them into buckets with other creatures can cause stress or harm to them.
if you're going to stuff them into a pail, the oxygen level depletes rapidly and might cause them to die," said dennis chan, 27. the founder of the untamed paths, an organisation that attempts to raise awareness of unconventional biodiversity in singapore, said that "putting these creatures in buckets also increases the temperature of water, causing more distress".
some marine creatures that suffer in this way include starfish and anemone.
"starfish will detach their arms when stressed; anemones will die when forcefully uprooted and taken out of the water.
like most marine life, starfish are also stressed by natural elements like the influx of freshwater or rain.
they become pale and die off slowly.
so imagine human impact on these delicate creatures," said mr jianlin liu, who has been going on intertidal walks at least thrice a month for nine years.
"prying soft invertebrates like marine flatworms and nudibranchs off rocks can also severely hurt or kill the animal.
"the 31-year-old, who has flown to bali twice a year for the last five years to do intertidal surveys, reasoned that such behaviour usually stems from a "lack of education", an "others do, so i follow" mentality and being able to see the creatures clearer in the pail.
"but other reasons include to harvest and consume marine life, sell the animals for money to aquariums or to collect for one's personal aquarium," he added.
aside from harming the creatures, mr liu added that the behaviour mentioned in the facebook post also destroys the habitat.
"no matter how gentle we are on the shores, there will be some impact.
with the huge crowd, a lot of marine life residing, breeding and feeding in the sand or seagrass will be killed due to excessive trampling," he said.
mr liu added that wearing inappropriate attire, like being barefoot or walking in slippers, during intertidal walks might also harm the individual, as many marine life "defend themselves with venom that can be fatal to humans".
"while our shores are beautiful, there are known dangers around.
we have past incidents of singaporeans stepping on the venomous stonefish and the pain is extreme," he said.
what can be doneeven though collecting marine creatures during intertidal walks is harmful, it seems that regulation around marine biodiversity has many "grey areas", said ms ting.
"but just because it might be legal doesn't mean it's ethical," she said.
as such, whenever mr chan and his team at the untamed paths guide participants during intertidal walks for 10 to 15 days a month, he cannot tell beach goers who pick up marine creatures that their actions are against the law.
"instead what we can do is show people how they can experience an intertidal zone and show respect to the creatures they encounter," he said.
"when you go to nature reserves, you aren't going to catch a frog.
that rule should apply here too.
"mr chan's advice to people who wish to go on intertidal walks is to leave their pails and tongs at home.
"just go to these zones and experience it with your phone or camera.
but leave those other items at home so you're not encouraged to pick things up.
there's no need to," he said.
cna contacted the national parks board (nparks) for a statement.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
london (reuters) covid-19 vaccines made by pfizer and astrazeneca offer high protection of more than 90 per cent against hospitalisation from the delta coronavirus variant, a new analysis by public health england (phe) showed on monday (june 14).
british prime minister boris johnson announced on monday a delay to the lifting of covid-19 restrictions in england due to the spread of the highly transmissible delta variant of concern, first identified in india, which is also associated with a higher risk of hospitalisation among the unvaccinated.
phe said that the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine was 96 per cent effective against hospitalisation from the delta variant after two doses, while oxford-astrazeneca's offered 92 per cent protection against hospitalisation by delta.
phe said that those levels of protection were comparable to that against the alpha variant, first identified in kent, south-east england.
the analysis adds to evidence that although the delta variant reduces the effectiveness of vaccines against symptomatic infection, two doses of a covid-19 vaccine still protect against severe disease.
"these hugely important findings confirm that the vaccines offer significant protection against hospitalisation from the delta variant," said ms mary ramsay, head of immunisation at phe.
the phe findings follow a scottish study which showed that two doses of a covid-19 vaccine among people who tested positive cut their risk of hospitalisation by 70 per cent, although there were not enough hospital admissions reported to compare the vaccines.
phe said that while further work was being undertaken to establish the level of protection against mortality from the delta variant, levels of protection against death were expected to be high.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — power-assisted bicycle (pab) and e-scooter riders must soon pass a mandatory online theory test before they are able to ride on cycling paths and roads, the land transport authority (lta) said on monday (14 june).
the rule, which will take effect from 1 january 2022, will improve awareness of active mobility rules, code of conduct and safe riding practices, said lta.
separate tests for pab and e-scooter users will be available on singapore polytechnic's (sp) professional & adult continuing education (pace) academy at www.
pace.
sp.
edu.
sg from 30 june in english, chinese, malay and tamil.
to help riders prepare for the tests, e-handbooks in these languages have been made available at go.
gov.
sg/amrules.
this will comprise 30 multiple-choice questions for the e-scooter test and 40 for the pab test, with 30 minutes and 40 minutes given respectively to complete the tests.
a digital certificate, with no expiry date, will be issued to those who pass.
the passing score is 80 per cent.
riders, who must be at least 16 years old, must register for an account on the theory test portal using their singpass at least a day before taking the test.
e-scooter riders below the age of 16 can only ride under adult supervision, and the supervising adult will need to have passed the test.
those who register for the test from 30 june to 30 september will enjoy a discounted fee of $5 per test, with a free second attempt should they fail on the first.
riders who register after 30 september must pay $10 per test attempt.
there will be a transition period of six months – 30 june to 31 december – for riders to prepare, take and complete the test before enforcement kicks in.
from 1 january 2022, riders must show their digital certificate when requested by enforcement officers.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:singapore reports 13 new covid-19 cases, 10 from the communitystudents to gradually return to school from 28 june: moeshn rules for travellers from fiji tightened, for travellers from israel easedan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
published: 10:30pm, 14 jun, 2021updated: 12:47am, 15 jun, 2021
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when five-year-old travis wong achieved distinction in the grade 8 violin performance examination conducted by london-based associated board of the royal schools of music (abrsm) in april, his family was surprised.
travis, who turned six last month, picked up the violin when he was three.
he had less than four months to master four pieces of music after his first test, the grade 5 violin performance exam, last december.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the taishan nuclear power plant in back in 2013. photographer: peter parks/afp/getty imagesthe french utility that partly owns a nuclear power plant near hong kong is seeking more information on a gas buildup in a reactor, even as its chinese partner insists the facility is operating safely.
electricite de france sa, which has a 30% stake in the taishan nuclear plant in south china, has called for an extraordinary board meeting with majority owner china general nuclear power corp. , or cgn, to discuss the increased concentration of inert gases at the unit 1 reactor in guangdong.
paris-based edf's call for more information on the issue -- first detected in october -- comes after cgn said sunday that environmental indicators at and around the facility are normal.
it's premature to say whether the reactor will have to be halted, spokespeople for edf said.
a spokesperson for shenzhen-based cgn referred to earlier statements on the issue when asked to comment on edf's request.
shares of the firm's hong kong-listed unit fell as much as 3.
5% in tuesday trading as other uranium-related stocks dropped.
data from the joint company that operates the facility, tnpjvc, suggest the coating on "a few fuel rods" has deteriorated, leading to increased gas within the primary loop of the reactor, edf told reporters monday.
the system is designed to collect and treat these gases before they are released outside the plant, and the gas buildup and emissions have remained within chinese regulatory limits, which are in line with average international standards, edf said.
china's national nuclear safety administration said in april the plant's unit 1 had experienced an operational incident that was categorized as minor, and not of safety significance.
edf, the world's largest operator of nuclear power stations, has faced fuel rod leaks at its french plants in the past.
such leaks don't necessarily require a halt if gas emissions remain within regulatory limits, the spokespersons said.
in france, the deterioration of fuel rods was caused either by a default in the fuel assemblies, or because they were damaged by a stray element in the reactor, they said.
the taishan plant, about 130 kilometers (80 miles) west of hong kong, has two units with a combined capacity of 3.
3 gigawatts that came online in 2018 and 2019, making them the most powerful reactors in operation.
they were designed by framatome, a subsidiary of edf, which also supplied their atomic fuel.
each reactor contains 241 fuel assemblies, which consist of 265 rods each, according to the french utility.
framatome warned the u. s.  government of an "imminent radiological threat" at the plant, cnn reported monday, citing unnamed u. s.  officials and documents the news network says it has reviewed.
the unit is "supporting resolution of a performance issue with the taishan nuclear power plant," framatome said in an email, adding that "according to the data available, the plant is operating within the safety parameters.
"several high-level meetings have taken place in washington, as well as discussions between the u. s.  and french governments and contact between the u. s.  and chinese administrations, as a result of framatome's concerns, cnn reported.
u. s.  officials do not believe the situation poses a severe safety threat to the public or workers at the plant, cnn said.
the taishan issue is arising amid a power shortage in guangdong, the country's industrial hub, that has caused more than 20 cities to ration electricity to some companies and factories.
unit 1 was operating normally and unit 2 was reconnected to the grid last week after an overhaul, cgn said.
issues at the china facility are also a new setback for edf, which is facing construction delays and cost overruns at similar atomic projects in france and the u. k.  it's been showcasing the taishan reactors to convince these two countries to build more such nuclear plants, and other nations such as poland and india to adopt the technology.
china is the world's third-biggest nuclear power market, after the u. s.  and france, and has the most new reactors under construction.
it's never had a serious nuclear accident on domestic soil.
— with assistance by alfred cang, and krystal chia
the government has lifted the 30-person limit on weddings – but dancing remains banned.
under the new rules for weddings, dancing indoors is still not permitted except for the couple's first dance.
on monday, boris johnson delayed the end of england's coronavirus lockdown until 19 july.
however, one key change to the restrictions saw johnson scrap the 30-guest limit for wedding ceremonies and receptions from 21 june: the date the lockdown was supposed to end.
watch: 30-person limit on weddings in england lifted from 21 junethe number of attendees will instead be decided by how many people the venue can safely accommodate with social distancing measures in place.
as well as indoor dancing not being allowed, other restrictions must remain in place.
food and drink must be ordered, served and consumed by guests seated at a table, while attendees must also wear face masks.
new rules also state that anyone organising weddings in gardens of private homes, or on private land, must complete a covid risk assessment if they want more than 30 people to attend.
johnson, meanwhile, was asked about wedding restrictions by a member of the public at monday's downing street press conference.
tessa from bedfordshire, who said she had to postpone her wedding twice, asked the prime minister why testing and vaccination status cannot be used to open up weddings in the same way it is being used for football matches.
she said it feels like weddings are "bottom of the priority list despite being significant life events without which some people cannot progress with their lives".
read more:pm delays end of covid restrictions by up to four weeks over delta variant fears'totally unacceptable': sir lindsay hoyle vents anger over move to hold covid road map press conference before mps are toldjohnson said: "i'm very, very sorry to hear about your wedding plans being postponed twice.
indeed, obviously, i'm sorry for all the disappointment that's going to be caused by going a bit slower as we are today.
"all i can say is i'm sorry for the disappointment that this will certainly bring to weddings, to many, many businesses, but it's a few weeks that i think is worth it to get those jabs in.
"johnson himself married his fiancee, carrie symonds, at the end of last month with a 30-person limit at the ceremony.
watch: pm delays end of covid restrictions by up to four weeks over delta variant fearsan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement on sunday (june 13).
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till june 15 to help f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms as well as 20 per cent funding of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from monday, some covid-19 restrictions will be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in eateries will be allowed only from june 21, assuming the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being reintroduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march 2020 to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign  boosted  its sales and social media presence, slake is  now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
mirroring esg's sentiment, ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

revised death tolls suggest that more than a million may have died during india's brutal second coronavirus wave, which is now ebbing
as india's devastating covid-19 second wave continues to subside, data has emerged that suggests undercounting of its virus death toll by up to five times during the spring.
officially, india has reported 374,000 fatalities from the virus but successive modelling studies by epidemiologists had already predicted the toll is much higher.
approximately 1.
2 million indians had already died by may 15, according dr bhramar mukherjee, a professor of public health and epidemiology at the university of michigan, who has been tracking india's pandemic.
now, new analysis of government mortality data from the southern state of andhra pradesh shows over 130,000 deaths in may, nearly five times the number of fatalities for the same month in 2018 and 2019. in the central state of madhya pradesh, april and may saw nearly three times as many deaths as in previous years.
the authorities in both states refused to comment on whether the additional deaths were due to the virus but across india, there have been repeated reports of state governments undercounting covid-19 fatalities.
politically, india is governed via a federal system and this has encouraged state governments to underreport covid-19 fatalities in political point-scoring and to reduce panic among citizens.
in many states, covid-19 fatalities were often only reported if the victim had no other co-morbidities, and instead fatalities were marked as being related to a variety of other causes, including heart attacks or diabetes.
a succession of investigations by the indian and international media found the number of daily covid-19 burials at individual cremation sites were also exceeding city-wide death tolls.
in india's capital of delhi, families of covid-19 victims reported that they were having to wait for up to 24 hours to cremate their bodies.
on wednesday, bihar, one of india's poorest states, revised its total covid-19 death toll from 5,424 to 9,429 following an investigation, after partially decomposed bodies of dozens of alleged virus victims were found floating in the river ganges.
the true covid-19 death toll could be higher still in bihar, though, as even pre-pandemic, only one-third of fatalities were registered.
this figure is believed to have dropped further with people wary of visiting hospitals out of fear of contracting the virus themselves.
there has also been a slight increase in deaths from other chronic diseases, such as cancer or kidney disease, as some patients were unable to access life-saving treatment during the height of covid-19 admissions.
however, there are increasingly encouraging signs that india's devastating second wave is starting to ebb.
on monday, the number of new daily cases dropped to 70,421, after exceeding 400,000 in mid-may.
in the city of ahmedabad, in one of india's worst-hit states of gujarat, doctors reported that the occupancy of covid-19 beds had fallen from 98 percent on march 23 to just two percent on june 12. protect yourself and your family by learning more about global health security we rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
we urge you to turn off your ad blocker for the telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
thank you for your support.
need help?visit our adblocking instructions
page.
[singapore, june 14, 2021] asiaone online (asiaone) is pleased to announce the appointment of mr sean ler  as ceo of the digital news site, effective june 16, 2021.  mr ler takes over from interim ceo of asiaone and group ceo for mm2 asia mr chang long jong.
mr chang will remain as the group ceo for mm2 asia and on the board of directors of asiaone.
mr ler is a proven executive with more than 18 years of experience in business operations and strategy.
he joined asiaone's parent company, mm2 asia in may this year as head of group digital strategy.
prior to his joining mm2, he served as the head of programmes and partnerships at temasek foundation in which he spearheaded their covid-19 community projects, such as the distributions of masks and hand sanitiser.
mr ler has also held various roles in the singapore navy, the prime minister's office, and the ministry of home affairs singapore.
mr ler will be overseeing asiaone's strategy to grow audiences both locally, and in the region.
"asiaone is an established digital brand strategically positioned as 'off centre, on trend'.
we will continue to deliver relevant and high-quality content while increasing our offerings.
audiences can look forward to more diverse content from the region, including those in chinese," says mr ler.
mr chan cheow-pong, head of media strategy at sph and board director of asiaone says, "we are delighted to welcome sean as the new ceo of asiaone.
sean's strong leadership qualities will help chart a new course for asiaone towards excellence in digital media.
with his background in digital outreach and community building, he will further strengthen asiaone and its brand in the exciting era ahead. "
mr chang long jong, group ceo for mm2 asia says, "the board would like to express its thanks and appreciation to mr ler for accepting the role at asiaone.
his significant public and private sector experience will be invaluable as we continue to expand and grow in asia.
we look forward to his leadership in steering asiaone to its future milestones of success.
"asiaone was founded in 1995 by singapore press holdings (sph) and is one of singapore's earliest digital media sites with a focus on social news and trending topics in singapore, malaysia and the region.
mm2 asia acquired 51 per cent equity interest in 2018, and asiaone is now operated as a joint venture between mm2 asia and sph invest, a wholly-owned subsidiary of sph.
presently the site is the third most-read news site in singapore, serving over 5 million unique users monthly.
about asiaone (www.
asiaone.
com)at asiaone, we deliver the latest trending news on entertainment, lifestyle, digital culture, and money to our readers from across the region.
founded over 25 years ago in singapore, asiaone is one of asia's top pure-play digital content sites that gives readers a fresh perspective of what's happening, packaged in a relatable way that matters.
our readers have access to daily articles that are on-trend reporting which has a unique, fun and quirky perspective on the day's happenings.
we are focused on informing and inspiring our readers with positivity and trustworthiness.
in 2020, we refreshed our logo to a zesty orange colour, representing the boldness and vocality we are committed to in bringing our readers stories with a unique "on trend, off centre" spin.
the digital platform is a joint venture between mm2 asia and sph invest, a wholly-owned subsidiary of sph.
follow asiaone on social media:
facebook: @asiaonecom / facebook.
com/asiaonecom
twitter: @asiaonecom / twitter.
com/asiaonecom
instagram: @asiaonecom / instagram.
com/asiaonecom
youtube: youtube.
com/asiaone
telegram: @asiaonecom / t. me/asiaonecom 
tiktok: @asiaone / tiktok.
com/@asiaone
linkedin: @asiaonecom / linkedin.
com/company/asiaonecomeditor@asiaone.
com
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore private-sector analysts have raised their forecast for singapore's economic growth this year to above the government's 4 per cent to 6 per cent range, despite the latest round of tighter covid-19 restrictions.
the republic's gross domestic product (gdp) may expand by 6.
5 per cent this year, higher than the 5.
8 per cent estimated in march, according to the latest quarterly survey released by the monetary authority of singapore (mas) on monday (june 14).
this comes after the economy grew by 1.
3 per cent in the first quarter, when survey respondents had forecast a 1.
1 per cent contraction.
survey respondents expect the economy to grow 15 per cent year on year in the april to june quarter, a robust jump off singapore's worst-ever quarter on record last year when gdp plunged 13.
2 per cent.
the forecast for growth next year has also been raised to 4 per cent from 3.
8 per cent tipped in the march survey.
analysts said that the covid-19 restrictions rolled out in singapore in recent weeks are not expected to weigh too heavily on the overall recovery picture.
cimb private banking economist song seng wun pointed to the momentum seen from the stronger-than-expected performance in the first quarter, and noted that most sectors in singapore have still been able to operate despite the tighter measures under the heightened alert phase.
it is largely the consumer-facing sectors like retail and food and beverage which have been hit, he added.
ocbc bank head of treasury research and strategy selena ling highlighted that the low base seen last year in addition to the expectation that tighter measures will be gradually lifted also contributed to the view that any adverse performance during this period is only a "temporary speed bump to growth recovery".
"moreover, the vaccination pace has been stepped up and vaccine supply is expected to resolve in the coming period," she said.
effective containment of the covid-19 outbreak topped the list of factors that could see the economists raising their growth outlook for singapore.
they also flagged the stronger-than-expected manufacturing sector performance, driven in part by robust global demand for electronics, as a big upside factor.
the prospect of reopening borders to international travel could also be a boon to the economy.
at the same time, deterioration in the pandemic situation and tighter public health measures as a result was the top downside risk to the growth outlook.
the economists polled were also concerned about geopolitical risks, including those stemming from united states-china tensions, and a slower-than-expected labour market recovery, which could weigh on private consumption.
ms ling said: "the main downside risk is if the borders don't reopen, then manpower costs will continue to be the extra whammy for the construction and other labour-intensive sectors.
"this is in addition to the periodic setbacks that new covid-19 variants and resurgence in infections that could disrupt economic activities, she added.
the survey predicts a lower unemployment rate of 2.
7 per cent at year-end, down from the 2.
9 per cent forecast in march.
the key manufacturing sector is expected to provide an important boost to singapore's economy, with economists hiking their 2021 growth forecast for the sector to 8.
3 per cent, way above the 4.
7 per cent predicted in march.
the forecast for non-oil domestic exports growth was also raised, to 7.
5 per cent from 6.
9 per cent, reflecting upbeat sentiments for global trade.
meanwhile, predictions for construction, accommodation and food services sectors which have been weighed down by covid-19 restrictions were lowered slightly for the full year.
inflation, measured by the consumer price index for all items, is expected to come in at 1.
4 per cent for the year, higher than the median forecast of 0.
9 per cent in march.
the median forecast for core inflation, which excludes volatile accommodation and private transport costs, was raised to 0.
8 per cent from 0.
7 per cent previously.
the survey was sent out on may 25.  it reflects the views of 24 respondents and not mas' own forecasts.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
would that be by cash, card or a handful of equal payments over a few months?starrie lee, 23, opted for the latter when she bought a computer monitor online in may.
in just a few clicks, the analyst for a technology consultancy split her purchase over three installments using a singapore-based "buy now, pay later," or bnpl, service known as rely.
she is scheduled to pay off her roughly s$500 ($380) bill in july.
"as someone who does strict budgeting on my monthly expenses, using bnpl gives me more flexibility and reasonableness in managing my cash flow," lee said.
"it prevents me from overspending.
"many officials in singapore, though, aren't convinced gen z consumers like lee are spending wisely.
the growing popularity of bnpl services among young singaporeans is unnerving regulators and politicians who fear bnpl apps prey on 20-somethings who may be financially naive.
"young adults without sufficient financial awareness can have access to credit lines before they have the necessary earning capacity," said cheryl chan, a member of parliament from the ruling people's action party, in an email.
"this is an unhealthy trend.
"among those sounding the alarm is the monetary authority of singapore, the city-state's de-facto central bank, which has launched a media campaign warning the payment methods may lead to debt and consumer credit risk.
the rely service.
photographer: wei leng tay/bloombergin one  article in the straits times newspaper, the mas encouraged people to avoid borrowing for shopping sprees.
"you should always spend within your means and not see bnpl schemes as a way to buy items that are more expensive than you can afford," the report said.
"do not be a hostage to your spending habits.
"bnpl services, also known as point-of-sale loans, allow buyers to spread out the cost of a purchase over a few months without interest fees, making even big-ticket items seem within reach.
already popular in the west, the services are gaining ground in singapore and other parts of southeast asia.
globally, the market for these payment services is expected to grow to about $33.
6 billion by 2027 from $7.
3 billion in 2019, according to consulting firm coherent market insights.
most singapore users are between 20 and 35, according to local bnpl companies, indicating that younger people are moving away from the traditional mindset against debt that many southeast asians hold.
retailers like sephora and zara accept the installment payments, with merchants paying bnpl companies a fee for each transaction.
a promoter for atome app outside a zara store in singapore.
photographer: wei leng tay/bloomberg"people want to have the latest fashion and look like they're on trend," anton ruddenklau, partner and head of financial services at  kpmg llp in singapore said.
"that is a big driver for people purchasing goods and then deciding to smooth the payments over time.
"the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the rise of bnpl services in the city-state by forcing merchants and consumers online, allowing shoppers to search quickly for the best deals and easily opt to use the payment method.
"a lot of our users are obviously being impacted by the coronavirus – either they were furloughed or it's just created more uncertainty for someone's income or budget," said ed chin, founder of local bnpl startup octifi.
"so a product like ours essentially creates more flexibility for them.
"some of southeast asia's technology giants have waded into the business.
ride-hailing firm grab holdings inc. 's paylater service launched in 2019 and is available in singapore and other countries in the region.
traveloka indonesia pt is continuing to expand its bnpl offering, with a focus on thailand and vietnam.
while most bnpl services are typically used for smaller-value purchases, 27% of singaporeans said they were financially worse off due to a bnpl purchase, according to a 2020 report from financial comparison platform finder, and 9% said they had paid penalties for missing payments.
unlike traditional credit cards which require comprehensive checks and paperwork to verify an individual's identity and credit worthiness, bnpl services allow users above 18 years old to create an account and begin shopping after entering personal information and linking at least a valid debit card.
late-fee charges typically range from s$5 to s$60.
the atome app.
photographer: wei leng tay/bloombergone startup, atome, launched in 2019 and works with more than 2,000 retailers across the region.
the company's average transaction sizes in singapore are typically around s$150, according to chief executive david chen.
"a credit card is a product that encourages spending but bnpl is not, as once you are overdue, we freeze the account," said chen.
the company conducts fraud, credit and risk assessment checks, he added, and observes repayment behavior history and incidence of late or missed payments.
the services currently fall outside mas regulations on credit that apply to banks and finance companies, chairman  tharman shanmugaratnam wrote in a recent  reply to questions posed in parliament.
the regulator will consider measures such as verifying bnpl users' incomes and creating a centralized system to check on advances taken between credit cards and bnpl platforms.
mas cannot yet share a timeline for the conclusion of its review, a spokesperson said in an email.
in the meantime, the central bank is counting on its media blitz to have an impact.
the regulator has worked with an online youth magazine to highlight the risks of overspending via bnpl services.
"if not careful, one could chalk up debt across multiple installment plans and get into financial distress, especially for someone without a stable income," mas warned.
still, the services could take off further among southeast asia's growing youth population.
the alternative payments method provides greater access to liquidity for the under-banked in emerging markets, according to octifi's chin.
eager to capture market share, atome, octifi and rely have plans to expand across the region.
as they do, they will be targeting consumers like chang wei yue, a 26-year-old public relations executive who recently finished paying off a s$2,000 purchase of invisible braces.
"it was super hassle-free and it put me at ease knowing i didn't have to pay the full sum right up front," she said.
— with assistance by chia woon eunice chua
topics
corporate tax cut | corporation tax | multinational corporations

william horobin | bloomberg 								  								  								  								  							  	  							  

							  last updated at june 15, 2021 00:43 ist
https://mybs.
in/2zf9sria global minimum corporate tax would generate around $150 billion in extra revenue for governments across the world, according to the official overseeing frenetic talks to get a deal between 139 countries in coming weeks.
"this is not an anecdotal amount," pascal saint-amans, director of the center for tax policy at the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), said on bfm business television on monday.
"in some ways, this is the end of the work on regulating globalisation for greater tax justice. "
after seven years of technical work on an overhaul of international taxation, negotiators at the oecd will meet in paris june 30 with the aim of making a proposal before a meeting of the group of 20 industrialised nations in july.
that follows an agreement between the group of seven to set a floor on corporate tax rates of "at least 15 per cent" instead of the current average of 6 per cent to 7 per cent.
the $150 billion estimate by saint-aman takes into account the oecd deal on minimum tax, as well as a revised version of existing us measures on taxing foreign profits known as gilti.
alongside negotiations on a global minimum rate, the oecd is also working on a system to divide up between governments the rights to tax multinationals, particularly tech firms.
the g7 proposed applying new rules to the "largest and most profitable" businesses, but that has raised concerns that amazon.
com would not be included because of its thin margins.
saint-amans said those concerns are a "false debate," because the oecd plans to segment its operations to isolate the online retailer's high-margin cloud services operations.
"the draft agreement foresees that cloud profits would be part of the solution and shared out between states," saint amans said.
he added that political momentum to stop firms parking profits in tax havens, and a need for governments to repair finances after the pandemic, mean that a g-20 deal is possible.
"it's a month already that we've had little sleep, and the next two weeks will be very important," saint-amans said.
"common sense is difficult for the international community, but i think we can get there. "
business standard has always strived hard to provide up-to-date information and commentary on developments that are of interest to you and have wider political and economic implications for the country and the world.
your encouragement and constant feedback on how to improve our offering have only made our resolve and commitment to these ideals stronger.
even during these difficult times arising out of covid-19, we continue to remain committed to keeping you informed and updated with credible news, authoritative views and incisive commentary on topical issues of relevance.
we, however, have a request.
as we battle the economic impact of the pandemic, we need your support even more, so that we can continue to offer you more quality content.
our subscription model has seen an encouraging response from many of you, who have subscribed to our online content.
more subscription to our online content can only help us achieve the goals of offering you even better and more relevant content.
we believe in free, fair and credible journalism.
your support through more subscriptions can help us practise the journalism to which we are committed.
support quality journalism and subscribe to business standard.
digital editor
previous storynext storycopyrights © 2021 business standard private ltd.  all rights reserved.
upgrade to premium services business standard is happy to inform you of the launch of "business standard premium services"as a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include:premium services in partnership with dear guest,welcome to the premium services of business standard brought to you courtesy fis.
kindly visit the manage my subscription page to discover the benefits of this programme.
enjoy reading!
team business standard
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore calls to the samaritans of singapore's (sos) mental health helpline spiked 40 per cent on may 16, the day singapore started heightened alert restrictions.
following the announcement of restrictions on may 4, sos experienced a 12 per cent increase in the volume of calls that week compared with the week before, sos chief executive gasper tan told the straits times.
seven out of 10 mental health organisations and professionals st spoke to saw spikes of between 20 and 60 per cent in queries and incidents like mental health crises because of the covid-19 pandemic and the social restrictions that have been used to contain the virus' spread.
those increased restrictions and the subsequent loss of support from outside the home compounded stress factors such as fears about the virus, difficult living situations, and fears about job loss and the future, say social workers.
caregivers alliance limited (cal), a non-profit organisation that helps the caregivers of those with mental health issues, said that it saw a "disturbing increase" in attempted and completed suicides between may last year and april this year among people being cared for.
cal's head of communications, ms tricia lee, said: "we have seen a rise in crisis cases as the mental health appointments or daycare programmes of caregivers' loved ones were halted.
the social restrictions in some cases caused rising tension within families, increasing the risk of relapse (into a mental health crisis).
"many students also found home-based learning stressful and missed the social interactions of schooling, support organisations said.
mr cho ming xiu, founder and executive director of campus psy, a mental health organisation for youth, said that it has seen a 40 per cent increase in the number of young people seeking emotional support via e-mail, and a 20 to 30 per cent increase across various social media platforms.
despite singapore's experience with the circuit breaker last year, the speed at which heightened alert measures came into effect made the situation difficult for many.
"with the sudden limitations of movement, many of our callers found themselves struggling to adjust and adapt to the newly implemented restrictions," said sos' mr tan.
"many had to cancel their plans and return to working from home or home-based learning arrangements, which contribute to a state of loss and helplessness.
"the accumulation of these stressors may be overwhelming and with no one to speak to, they reach out to sos.
"however, the experience of last year's circuit breaker helped some organisations prepare for the sudden onset of restrictions, which included a ban on dining in eateries and reduced group sizes for social meetings from five to two.
to meet the intensified need for support, cal has increased its number of helplines from one to six since april last year, as well as the frequency of its caregivers-to-caregivers programmes.
these programmes provide fully funded training and support to caregivers of people with mental health issues, such as dementia.
silver ribbon singapore, a charity that provides free counselling services, said it saw a 20 per cent increase in calls, but social worker phay yan deng, 29, said the organisation was more prepared to provide support online this time round.
he said that during the circuit breaker period, it was "initially slightly overwhelmed as many things were quite new to us".
"in the past, we provided emotional support only face to face", whereas most of its work, from referral to actual sessions, is now done online, he said.
however, while organisations may be better prepared, silver ribbon's executive director, ms porsche poh, said it is not helpful to assume that people should be able to cope with heightened alert restrictions just because they have been through it before.
"they might have limited social support, or face a new set of challenges during this phase," she said.
national care hotline: 1800-202-6868
institute of mental health's mental health helpline: 6389-2222
samaritans of singapore: 1800-221-4444
touchline: 1800-377-2252
care corner counselling centre: 6353-1180join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

many of the offers appearing on this site are from advertisers from which this website receives compensation for being listed here.
this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear).
these offers do not represent all available deposit, investment, loan or credit products.
the g7 reached a "historic commitment" regarding the global tax system last week, part of which would seek to rectify large tech companies' corporate tax avoidance via tax havens.
see: g7 leaders support 15% minimum corporate tax agreement
find: g7 finance ministers meeting ends with heat on facebook, google and amazon with global minimum tax"we need a tax system that is fair across the world.
we endorse the historic commitment made by the g7 on 5 june," the g7 said in a statement.
"we will now continue the discussion to reach consensus on a global agreement on an equitable solution on the allocation of taxing rights and an ambitious global minimum tax of at least 15 per cent on a country-by-country basis, through the g20/oecd inclusive framework and look forward to reaching an agreement at the july meeting of g20 finance ministers and central bank governors.
with this, we have taken a significant step towards creating a fairer tax system fit for the 21st century, and reversing a 40-year race to the bottom.
our collaboration will create a stronger level playing field, and it will help raise more tax revenue to support investment and it will crack down on tax avoidance.
"tech giants who responded to the agreement include nick clegg, facebook vice president for global affairs, who said in a tweet that the company "has long called for reform of the global tax rules and we welcome the important progress made at the g7.
today's agreement is a significant first step towards certainty for businesses and strengthening public confidence in the global tax system. "
he added, "we want the international tax reform process to succeed and recognize this could mean facebook paying more tax, and in different places.
"see: companies like amazon might finally be forced to pony up taxes — what this could mean for you
find: cloud outages shut consumers out of amazon, target, paypal and moreamazon said the agreement "marks a welcome step forward" in efforts to "bring stability to the international tax system," according to cnbc.
"we hope to see discussions continue to advance with the broader g20 and inclusive framework alliance.
"treasury secretary janet yellen, who attended the g7 meeting, applauded the decision, calling it "a significant, unprecedented commitment" that "would end the race-to-the-bottom in corporate taxation, and ensure fairness for the middle class and working people in the u. s.  and around the world," according to a statement.
see: what are the world's best tax havens?
find: treasury secretary yellen confident $1.
9 trillion bill will help bring country 'back to full employment' next yearasked at a press conference whether amazon and facebook would be affected, yellen said she believes they "will qualify by almost any definition.
""and essentially what we've agreed, is that we will reallocate taxing rights for a portion of the excess or residual profits of those companies to jurisdictions where they have market activity on the basis of the distribution of that activity," she added.
more from gobankingratesevery day, get fresh ideas on how to save and make money and achieve your financial goals.
sponsored links by zergnet advertiser disclosure: many of the offers appearing on this site are from advertisers from which this website receives compensation for being listed here.
this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear).
these offers do not represent all available deposit, investment, loan or credit products.
we're here to help you live richer.
sign up to receive our daily weekday newsletter with the latest finance and lifestyle content.
for our full privacy policy, click here.
a leading-edge research firm focused on digital transformation.
good
            

subscriber
account active
            since
            
free subscriber-exclusive audiobook!
"no rules rules: netflix and the culture of reinvention"get it now on libro.
fm using the button below.
the group of 7 summit didn't just give leaders toasted marshmallows and sea shanty serenades: it also provided crucial momentum for a new tax measure that could revolutionize international taxation.
the global minimum corporate tax rate is a measure that's gained increased prominence amidst tax talks.
it would impose a non-binding minimum rate on multinational companies, a disincentive to those companies fleeing one country for another with lower taxes.
that tax could also bring in $150 billion, according to a bloomberg report which cited pascal saint-amans, who directs the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd)'s center for tax policy.
presumably speaking about an annual figure, saint-amans told the french channel bfm business that it is "not an anecdotal amount.
""in some ways," saint-amans said, "this is the end of the work on regulating globalization for greater tax justice. "
the figure he put forward also includes "a revised version of existing us measures on taxing foreign profits known as gilti," according to bloomberg.
the g7 summit represented a major diplomatic and political step forward for the tax measures, as leaders agreed to a minimum rate of at least 15%.
that's what the us had reportedly proposed, a rate lower than the anticipated proposal of 21%, but still in line with the treasury department's proposal.
saint-amans also addressed concerns that companies like amazon could dodge the tax due to low profit margins, saying that the oecd would specifically look at its higher-margin cloud services.
big tech companies and governments are already lining up behind the measure, lauding the historical step.
but there's still a long road ahead before it's enacted.
the measure will go to the g20 next, and then to the oecd.
countries like the us would also have to craft legislation to officially enact the tax once it's agreed upon, which may prove tricky.
as insider previously reported, the gop's likely opposition to the measure could potentially sink it.
"why would we want to commit to doubling our global minimum tax?
that's a very bad policy," sen.  pat toomey, the ranking republican on the senate banking committee, previously told insider.
there's already domestic partisan turmoil over proposed changes to us tax law.
president joe biden wants to raise the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28% to offset infrastructure spending, a proposal that's already drawn republican resistance.
that increase is a red-line for the gop.
but, according to the figure cited by saint-amans, leaving behind the global minimum proposal could also leave billions of dollars in potential revenue behind.
diver said he thought of his wife and kids while he was stuck inside the whale's mouthfind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilea lobster diver who survived being engulfed by a whale recounted his wild life – in which he has survived a plane crash and found a dead body – during a reddit "ask me anything".
users on the site spoke with michael packard, a fisherman who wound up inside the mouth of a humpback whale while diving for lobster last friday.
mr packard's son facilitated the discussion.
mr packard said it was totally dark inside the creature's mouth, and said the whale used its head and tongue to dislodge him from its mouth.
he insists the whale could not have swallowed him fully, even if it wanted to.
however, he said he could have still died regardless, as he could have suffocated inside the mouth or drowned, as he momentarily lost his diving regulator.
mr packard said he was trapped in the whale's mouth for between 30 and 40 seconds, and said he was "almost convinced i was going to die that day".
he said it is not unusual for him to run into whales while diving, but said in most cases the animals keep their distance.
he was taken to the hospital, after the incident, and suffered soft tissue damage from the blunt force of the whale's mouth, which he said he could feel clamping down on his leg.
mr packard recalled having numerous visits while he was at the hospital from doctors and nurses asking him about the whale experience, including one nurse who came in with a notepad and asked him for lottery numbers.
during the chat, the diver revealed that being nearly eaten by a whale is only one in a line of exceptional experiences he's had.
"a while back, i encountered the corpse of a missing person while diving," he said.
"that is definitely up there with the crazy stories.
"he said the body he found was being sought by investigators as part of an active missing person case.
the diver also revealed that he had survived a plane crash in costa rica.
in 2001, mr packard and seven others were in a small plane when it crashed in costa rica, killing three of the passengers.
doctors who treated the survivors – including mr packard, who had sustained injuries to his chest – said they would not have survived another night at their crash site due to the injuries they sustained.
noting the cinematic series of misadventures the diver has had, reddit users asked him who he would want to play him in a movie about his life.
mr packard said he would prefer matt damon, though his wife insists that sean penn take the role.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliesscreengrabwant to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
washington: the chinese scientist at the centre of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialised lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fuelled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones, including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans, in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells".
but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    monday, 14 jun 2021
                gojek will also introduce a payout of sg$3 to drivers who have to drive 3km or more to pick-up their passenger, among other measures.
— kelvin chng/st photosingapore: ride-hailing operator gojek will halve the commission it receives from its drivers from june 21 till at least the end-2022, in order to help them increase their earnings.
this means gojek drivers will get to keep 90% of the fare from every trip, instead of 80%.
the move comes after grab, the dominant ride-hailing operator here, said it would seek to improve drivers' earnings by introducing a sg$1 fare hike from this month.
gojek said on monday (june 14) that the cut in commission, which it refers to as service fees, will help to lessen the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on its drivers.
it said a survey it conducted found that 50% of drivers want lower service fees for better earnings.
gojek will also introduce a payout of sg$3 (rm9.
30) to drivers who have to drive 3km or more to pick-up their passenger, among other measures.
its general manager, lien choong luen, said: "the ongoing impact of the pandemic is a consistent worry for our driver-partners as they try to sustain their earnings amidst the uncertainty.
""these measures will have a profound impact on the livelihoods of our driver-partners, increasing their take-home earnings while giving them more flexibility by reducing their dependence on incentives," he added.
gojek said the changes reflect a significant investment in singapore, as it seeks to grow its market share here.
it also said that a recent campaign to provide free or discounted rides to and from vaccination sites for all riders in singapore has registered 117,500 rides so far.
several drivers have been calling for ride-hailing operators to cut their commissions to help drivers tide over the impact of the pandemic.
while grab has not announced a cut of its 20% commission rate, it said last month that it will permanently raise fares by sg$1 (rm3.
10) from this month to improve driver earnings amid rising fuel and maintenance costs.
it will not collect commission on the additional sg$1 from june 1 to june 30.  this means drivers will get sg$1 more for every ride they complete with grab for a month.
– the straits times (singapore)/asia news networkrelated stories:indonesian bts 'army' initiate fundraising for gojek drivers, goes viral with generous tipsbts fans in indonesia raised rm44,000 for food delivery ridersgojek to begin car-hailing services in vietnam

topic:



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
singapore: teachers are reaching out to parents and students who have not responded to invitations to take the covid-19 vaccination to offer assistance if needed, said second minister for education maliki osman on monday (jun 14).
"it could be an issue where the parents do not know how to (sign up).
it could be an issue that they are not quite familiar with the online system," he said, speaking to reporters at a vaccination centre at ite college west.
"it could also be parents have some concerns about safety.
so for that, we are asking our teachers to reach out to them.
"giving updates on thestudent vaccination exercise, dr maliki said that 345,000 text messages and invites have been sent out to eligible parents and students.
as of sunday, 300,000 students have registered and booked their slots for their vaccination.
of these students, 101,000 have received their first dose, he added.
among students from the graduating cohorts, who were the first batch of students to receive invites, 90 per cent have registered for the vaccination and 75 per cent of them have received their first doses, said dr maliki.
some parents may face challenges taking their children to the vaccination centres, such as those who are working and have younger children to care for, said dr maliki.
"for those groups, we assure them that all they need to do is when school reopens, they can get in touch with the schools, get in touch with the teachers, and the schools are ready to help facilitate bringing some of the students together perhaps to a vaccination centre, or creating better transportation facilities for them to do so," he added.
"we are still reaching out to all those who have not signed up, who have not registered, and we look forward to them understanding the support that's available for the students to be getting their vaccinations.
"monday was also the first day of vaccinations for ite students.
about nine in 10 of them have registered for the vaccination exercise, said dr maliki.
at ite college west, about 280 students took their first dose of the covid-19 vaccine on monday morning.
there are 28,000 ite students across singapore, and they can register for the vaccination directly through their schools for the centre set up in their respective colleges, said dr maliki.
all three ite college vaccination centres are open, and the fourth moe vaccination centre at raffles city convention centre will start operations on tuesday.
the education ministry hopes all students can receive their second dose by the end of august, "but that all depends" on the response rate, said dr maliki.
"it's very encouraging today.
by and large, we have about 80 to 90 per cent of responses for the different categories, and we hope more will step forward," he added.
responding to a question about whether vaccinated and non-vaccinated students will be subject to different measures when they return to school, dr maliki said: "the last thing we want is for students to be identified as 'you have been vaccinated' and 'you have not been vaccinated', because we do not want a situation where one becomes stigmatised for not being vaccinated.
"certainly, we have to respect decisions by parents, whether they would like their children to be vaccinated or not.
we hope that the environment is one where everyone in the school feels safer, now that the majority would have had their vaccination by the time they resume school at the end of june.
"dr maliki added that schools will continue to adhere to safe management measures like practising hygiene and cleanliness standards, safe distancing and the wearing of masks.
"we will continue to take guidance from the mtf (multi-ministry task force) with regard to the measures that we put in place at the national level and schools will respond accordingly," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from today, which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening today will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post yesterday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement yesterday.
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till tomorrow by helping f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13.  the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms, as well as 20 per cent of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from today, some covid-19 restrictions will also be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in at eateries will be allowed only from next monday, provided that the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support, even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being re-introduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year, to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy, so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign boosted its sales and social media presence, slake is now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
"we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
with hospitals pushed to the limit, good samaritans have stepped forward to save lives.
but beating the second wave — and preventing a third — will take a lot more, experts tell the programme insight.
mumbai: people feared they would die if they stepped out of their homes.
in the streets, people were weeping beside the dead.
oxygen and hospital beds were in dire shortage.
as new cases in india exceeded 400,000 and deaths exceeded 4,000 on some days last month, even the rich and connected were not spared from the devastating second wave of the covid-19 pandemic.
but the virus did not kill the spirit of generosity.
in mumbai, kidney dialysis patient rozy saldhana and her husband had basic medical facilities including an oxygen cylinder set up at home for emergencies.
despite her kidney failure, the 52-year-old did not hesitate to give the cylinder to someone else who needed it.
her husband, pascol, had received a call from his friend, a school principal.
the husband of a teacher needed oxygen but could not get hold of a cylinder.
watch: in india, dialysis patient saves dying covid-19 victims (3:22)when saldhana — who has been on dialysis for five years — heard about it, she told her husband to give their cylinder to the man.
"don't worry about me.
i'm fit enough," her husband recollected her saying.
she did not stop there.
she told her husband to sell all her jewellery and buy oxygen to help more people.
he received 80,000 rupees (s$1,450) from the sale and did as his wife had asked.
over in delhi, a sikh voluntary organisation called khalsa help international has set up makeshift hospital facilities in several locations to treat patients.
its free oxygen support service has saved thousands of lives since late april.
its founder, gurpreet singh rummy, said the group has not refused anyone.
it has served more than 15,000 people, of whom around 8,000 to 10,000 had arrived in a critical state and would have died without oxygen support, he said.
"whether you're coming in a rickshaw or a mercedes-benz, we treat all equally.
our only priority is the level of oxygen," he told theprogramme insight.
we don't discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or if one is rich or poor.
our service is for everyone.
while getting supplies is not easy, he told reuters that the organisation's volunteers "travel hundreds of kilometres" to fetch oxygen, and "you can't expect such zeal from most government bodies".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the path to catastrophehealthcare experts said a highly transmissible strain, complacency and large gatherings were among the reasons behind the second wave.
last year, india was quick to impose a lockdown from late march.
while it caused suffering to migrant workers within the country, it helped contain case numbers, noted rajesh parikh, the director of medical research at jaslok hospital, one of mumbai's top hospitals.
but india failed to take advantage of the respite to ramp up facilities and oxygen production, he said.
from october, most safety protocols had been abandoned, and millions of people travelled between states.
large gatherings in the form of diwali celebrations and weddings made a comeback.
"one of the confounding factors in the second wave has been large gatherings, whether it's for the kumbha mela, a religious gathering, or the political rallies which occurred throughout west bengal," said parikh.
these "undoubtedly" amplified the second wave.
the authorities also incorrectly estimated that india's population had "possibly acquired herd immunity", cited k srinath reddy, the president of the public health foundation of india.
antibody surveys were done in a "patchy" and "piecemeal" fashion across the country, with "markedly varying results", noted the professor.
the best results showed widespread detection of antibodies, hence the belief that "most of india" had herd immunity.
"the public wanted to believe it.
the businessmen wanted to believe it because they wanted to put the economy back on the rails.
the small traders wanted to believe it because they'd suffered a lot," said the cardiologist and epidemiologist.
"the politicians wanted to believe it because they wanted to go back to election rallies .
.
.
even people who wanted to organise religious festivals wanted to believe that good news, because that's their business as well.
"watch: the full episode — india's covid catastrophe: what went wrong?
(48:05)meanwhile, a new viral strain — called the delta variant, or b.
1.
617 previously — emerged and spread more quickly than doctors expected.
"we've seen that (if) even one person in the family is infected, the entire household comes down with the infection in the next 10 or 12 days," said mumbai-based infectious diseases expert trupti gilada-baheti.
vaccination a matter of urgencythe outcome is immeasurable grief across india.
pune resident arun gaikwad, a 47-year-old indian air force officer, lost his wife and half her family in the span of 15 days in march and april.
they had held prayers for his late father-in-law, and one of his brothers-in-law had a cold.
in the following days, nearly everyone who had gathered, including gaikwad's teenage daughter and son, tested positive for covid-19.
when his wife developed breathing difficulties, he rushed to several hospitals before locating one 40 kilometres away with a ventilator bed available.
two days after she was admitted, she died of cardiac arrest.
two brothers-in-law and his mother-in-law also died.
new cases have declined since last month after lockdowns were imposed.
but to prevent a resurgence, doctors say the country must urgently vaccinate its people.
in a population of over 1.
3 billion people, over 240 million doses of vaccine have been administered so far.
india must ensure that there are enough vaccines and ramp up its vaccination drive in both cities and villages, said gilada-baheti, who works at the unison medicare and research centre.
"to keep ourselves from a very disastrous third wave, we'll have to vaccinate a substantial number of a population at phenomenal speed," said the doctor, who is also a consultant at prince aly khan hospital and at masina hospital.
effective control measures would also ease the mental strain on healthcare professionals.
"every day in the ward or the icu is like a battle," said gilada-baheti.
"every day we see victories, and we see losses .
.
.
it's heartbreaking.
"watch this episode ofinsight here.
the programme airs on thursdays at 9pm.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on sunday (13 june) confirmed 13 new cases of covid-19 infection in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,276. of the new cases, 10 are community transmissions with eight linked to past cases, said moh in a news release.
five of the community cases have already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance.
the remaining two community cases are unlinked.
there are no new cases from the migrant worker dormitories.
moh also reported three imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice since their arrival in singapore.
of the 13 new cases, seven are asymptomatic, and were detected from screening and surveillance, while six were symptomatic.
overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 116 cases in the week before to 36 cases in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has also fallen from 17 cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week.
the two unlinked cases are a 23-year-old fully vaccinated male india national who works as a nursing aide at all saints home (hougang) and a 27-year-old male india national who works as an engineer at ecoxplore.
the latter case is the source of a new cluster named after his case number.
there are four cases linked to the new cluster.
they are:a 50-year-old bangladeshi man who is employed by theng liang lee services as a conservancy worker at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre.
a 72-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and works at a sundry shop at the location.
a 67-year-old singaporean woman who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
a 65-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
the food centre is closed to all members of the public for three days from sunday to 15 june, as moh's epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
all staff and tenants who have been working at the location from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine.
in order to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission, moh will conduct special testing operations for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
moh will also extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june.
there are two new cases linked to the cluster, named after the case number of the 27-year-old male india national who works at ecoxplore.
they are a 19-year-old singaporean woman who works as a warehouse assistant at dhl express (singapore) and a 39-year-old singaporean woman who is employed by cleen first services as a cleaner at emerald park condominium.
both are household contacts and family members to each another.
they are household contacts of the male india national.
two cases are linked and not part of a cluster.
one of them is a 59-year-old singaporean woman who works as a part-time cleaner at crystal lodge and is a close contact of a previous case.
the other is a 66-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree, and a family member of a previous case.
of the three imported cases, two are singapore permanent residents who returned from india, and one is a work permit holder who arrived from indonesia and is a foreign domestic worker.
with 31 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on sunday, 61,869 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 130 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 243 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 80 confirmed cases reported from 7 to 13 june, 44 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 27 have tested negative, and nine serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
a us army special forces veteran and his son pleaded guilty in tokyo on monday to charges that they illegally helped former nissan motor co ltd chairman carlos ghosn flee japan.
a united states army special forces veteran and his son have pleaded guilty in tokyo to charges that they illegally helped former nissan motor co ltd chairman carlos ghosn flee japan hidden in a box on board a private jet in december 2019. chief judge hideo nirei, one of the three judges presiding over their first court appearance, on monday asked michael taylor and his son peter whether there was any mistake in the charges submitted by the tokyo prosecutors' office.
"no your honour," the older taylor replied.
"no," said his son.
extradited to japan from the us in march, they are being held at the same jail in tokyo where ghosn was imprisoned.
they could face up to three years in prison.
wearing black jackets and pants, white shirts and plastic slippers, the duo were led into the court with ropes threaded through handcuffs and tied around their waists.
prosecutors accused them of helping ghosn evade punishment and escape to lebanon from western japan's kansai airport, receiving $1.
3m for their services, some of which was paid to an advertising company owned by the younger taylor.
the americans asked ghosn for another $500,000 for legal fees after japan sought their arrest, prosecutors said.
they also described the younger taylor as a frequent visitor to lebanon and said planning for the escape began about six months before ghosn fled.
their statement also said ghosn's wife carole sought help from michael taylor, with ghosn later contacting him from tokyo with a phone he had hidden from the japanese authorities.
a third man, george-antoine zayek, recruited by the taylors, travelled to japan later in 2019 to find a way through airport security, settling on the private jet terminal at kansai airport as the best route out, the prosecutors said.
zayek remains at large.
the luggage that does not fit through the security scanning machine there is inspected by hand.
that check, however, can be waived by the pilot.
the taylors' lawyers in the us waged a months-long battle to prevent their extradition to japan, arguing they could not be prosecuted for helping someone "bail jump" and that they could face relentless interrogations and torture.
suspects in japan are interrogated in the absence of their lawyers and are often denied bail before trial.
japan's conviction rate is 99 percent.
at the time of ghosn's escape, he was awaiting trial on charges that he understated his compensation in nissan's financial statements by 9.
3 billion yen ($85m) over a decade and enriched himself at his employer's expense through payments to car dealerships.
ghosn – who denies any wrongdoing – remains a fugitive in his childhood home, lebanon, which has no extradition treaty with japan.
greg kelly, a former nissan executive charged with helping ghosn hide his earnings, is also standing trial in tokyo.
he denies the charges against him.
the taylors will make their next appearance in court, the same room where kelly's trial is being held, on june 29, when their lawyers will deliver a statement and the americans will be cross-examined.
father-son duo hoped biden administration would block extradition, but us authorities handed them over.
former top lawyer says he was surveilled and demoted after he questioned the probe, bloomberg reports.
a dutch court rejected the fugitive former auto chief's wrongful dismissal claim against nissan-mitsubishi.
on monday morning, a delegation of french investigators began questioning carlos ghosn, the former chairman of renault.
we use cookies to give you the best possible experience.
learn more about how we use cookies.
by clicking 'accept' you agree to these cookies.
to decline, click here.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jakarta jakarta governor anies baswedan has warned that the indonesian capital may return to a strict restriction regime as coronavirus cases surged 50 per cent in the past week amid a rise of infections of the delta variant.
active cases in jakarta rose to 17,400 cases on sunday (june 13) from 11,500 on june 6.
"the capital is in a state that needs extra attention.
if the current situation gets out of hand, we would enter an emergency phase, and if that happened, we would have to take drastic steps like we did in september and february.
we do not want that to recur," mr anies said in a statement on monday morning.
the delta variant, first detected in india, has started to dominate cases in indonesian cities, with health minister budi gunadi sadikin confirming that covid-19 cases in jakarta, kudus (central java province), and bangkalan (east java province) are dominated by the delta variant, based on genome sequencing tests.
bed occupancy rate for isolation wards in jakarta reserved to treat covid-19 patients also increased to 75 per cent on sunday, from 45 per cent a week ago.
one out of four covid-19 patients in jakarta, however comes from outside the city, mostly the surrounding satellite towns.
mr anies urged residents to strictly comply with health protocols in order to avoid another round of strict social distancing restrictions.
currently, dining in eateries is allowed with limited capacity, and non-essential staff are partially required to work from home.
the governor also stressed that the positivity rate in jakarta increased to 17 per cent on sunday, from 9 per cent the previous week.
the positivity rate indicates the percentage of positive covid-19 cases detected out of the total tests conducted.
the threshold set by the world health organisation (who) for adequate testing is a 5 per cent positivity rate.
mr anies pointed out that the testing rate in jakarta rose to eight times what the world health organisation recommended, from four times in the previous week.
he ordered all his personnel on sunday night to take stricter measures and to step up enforcement of the health protocols on individuals as well as in places.
to ensure that residents comply with the strict health protocols, president joko widodo on monday decided to beef up the deployment of military and police officers across 7,000 sub-regencies in the country.
indonesia's 34 provinces are made up of more than 500 regencies and cities, which in turn consist of 7,000 sub-regencies.
mr widodo also decided to speed up daily vaccination rate from the current 500,000 doses a day to 700,000 later this month and then one million next month.
people living in covid-19 red zones – places with hospital bed occupancy ratio exceeding 60 per cent – will get priority in vaccination, said mr budi, following a meeting with the president.
in addition, places of worship in the covid-19 red zones will be closed for the next two weeks.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

britain's foreign secretary dominic raab on the sidelines of g7 summit in carbis bay, cornwall, britain, june 11, 2021
  | photo credit: 
reuters
  world leaders gathered at the g7 summit in cornwall discussed the possibility that a laboratory leak in central china's wuhan city may have a connection with the start of the covid-19 pandemic, with the world health organisation (who) chief saying all hypotheses behind the origins of the deadly disease remain in play.
uk foreign secretary dominic raab said that officials "compared notes" over the theory that the pandemic may have originated from a leak from a lab in wuhan, calling for further investigations.
however, he asserted that the uk's "best information" remained that it "jumped" from animals to humans but admitted they did not have "all the answers".
"that's why internationally we wanted the review to be able to go into china to get all the answers, so that we have the full picture rather than these possible, potential, plausible options," mr raab told 'sky news' on sunday when asked about the issue.
"but, on balance, we do not believe that it came from a laboratory.
we think it is much more likely to have jumped from animal species," he said.
who director-general dr tedros adhanom ghebreyesus told reporters on saturday that the theory was raised during a formal session at the g7 summit in cornwall dedicated to health matters and that identifying the source of the pandemic was a core part of showing respect to the millions of people around the globe who have died from the deadly virus.
"yes, it was raised, and we discussed about the origins," he said in response to a question.
"the first phase of the origin study was not conclusive so there are four hypotheses, but [it's] not conclusive yet.
so we believe that all four hypotheses should be open, and we need to proceed with the second phase, to really know the origins," said dr ghebreyesus.
"as you know, more than 174 million people have been confirmed for covid illness.
this is actually an underestimate, it could be more.
and so far, close to 3.
75 million people have died.
this is very tragic and i think the respect these people deserve is knowing what the origin of this virus is so that we can prevent it from happening again," he said, stressing on the importance of "cooperation from the chinese side".
the origins of the covid-19 remain a widely debated topic, with some scientists and politicians maintaining that the possibility of a lab leak of the deadly virus exists.
china's wuhan institute of virology (wiv) is near the outbreak's known epicentre of huanan seafood market in wuhan, where the virus first emerged in late 2019 and became a pandemic.
more than 175 million confirmed cases have since been confirmed worldwide and at least 3.
79 million deaths reported.
china has been accused of withholding raw data and access to sites that would aid deeper investigation into how the virus came into being, and how it first spread.
scientists believe that the virus is likely to have passed from animals to humans, but there remains a possibility that it may have escaped from the wuhan institute of virology, which investigates other coronaviruses.
us president joe biden last month directed the country's intelligence agencies to report in the next three months on whether covid-19 emerged from an animal or during a laboratory accident.
however, beijing has maintained there is no connection between the pandemic origins and the wuhan lab and sought to dismiss the issue of a possible leak as an "absurd story".
china asserts that the covid-19 broke out in different places in the world and china only reported the virus first.
our code of editorial valuesplease enter a valid email address.
printable version | jun 15, 2021 9:38:53 am | https://www.
thehindu.
com/news/international/g7-leaders-discuss-wuhan-lab-leak-theory-behind-covid-19-pandemic/article34804805.
ece

© thg publishing pvt ltd. 

a video on the protests in budapest against the building of a fudan university campus in the city

diplomatic affairs editor suhasini haidar discusses what led to the country's current vaccine crisis
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore vaccination has begun for all institute of technical education (ite) students on monday (june 14) now that three out of four ministry of education vaccination centres have opened.
vaccination centre operations started at ite college central in ang mo kio on june 7, at ite college east in simei on june 9 and at ite college west in choa chu kang on june 11.  the fourth centre, at raffles city convention centre, will open on tuesday.
more than 300,000 students across singapore have registered for their vaccination appointments thus far, of whom over 101,000 have taken their first dose, said second education minister maliki osman.
about 345,000 smses and invites had been sent to eligible students.
dr maliki gave reporters an update on student vaccination numbers during a visit to ite college west in choa chu kang on monday.
"our first batch, our graduating students, about 90 per cent of them have already registered, and about 75 per cent received their first doses.
"it's very encouraging to see how the students are responding to all these invitations and smses that have been given to them.
"the hope is that all students will be able to get fully vaccinated by the end of august, dr maliki added, although this will depend on the response rate.
schools are contacting parents of students who did not respond to the vaccination bulletins to find out more about their concerns, he said.
"it could be an issue where the parents may not know how to (register).
.
.
that they are not quite familiar with the online system.
"it could also be that parents have some concerns about issues of safety and so for that, we are asking teachers to reach out to them," he said.
some working parents may also face challenges in getting their children, especially the younger ones, to the vaccination centres.
"so for those groups, we can assure them that all they need to do is when school reopens, get in touch with the teachers.
"the schools are ready to help, for example, with transport arrangements, he said.
the new school term starts on june 28. it was earlier announced that singapore would roll out its vaccination exercise to more than 400,000 students in schools and institutes of higher learning, including autonomous universities, polytechnics and ite, amid more covid-19 infections among children.
those affected included students in primary and secondary schools, junior colleges, the millennia institute, madrasahs, special education schools, and the international arms of hwa chong institution, anglo-chinese school and st joseph's institution.
students had been invited to sign up for vaccination slots from june 1, starting with about 56,000 students who will be sitting major examinations like the o and a levels this year.
those aged 18 and above can opt for either the pfizer-biontech or moderna vaccine, while those aged between 12 and 17 will be offered only the pfizer jab as the moderna vaccine has not been approved for use on this younger age group.
jemima yap ning, 17, a student at ite college west, receiving the covid-19 vaccine on june 14, 2021.  st photo: ong wee jin
dr maliki said the ite centres will be able to administer 1,600 doses of the vaccine a day, while the raffles city centre can do 2,000 doses a day.
this week, the three centres will provide vaccinations for ite students in the morning from 8.
30am to 11.
30am, and for all other students from 1.
30pm to 4.
30pm.
he added that there are currently around 28,000 ite students.
from next week, the centres will be open to all students.
students in the observation area after receiving their vaccines at the ite college west vaccination centre on june 14, 2021.  st photo: ong wee jin
dr maliki also reiterated that vaccinating students is one of the many protective measures in place to ensure their safety, with the majority of students expected to receive the first dose of their vaccine by end-june when school reopens.
however, safe management measures such as mask wearing, safe distancing and staggered recess times will continue to prevail.
business student danial norizam, 16, was among the ite students vaccinated on monday morning.
he told the straits times that he was a little anxious about the side effects initially, but felt that it was important to get his vaccine in order to keep himself safe.
both his parents, who have already been vaccinated, had also encouraged him to do so.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
hong kong (ap) — the french joint operator of a chinese nuclear plant near hong kong said monday that the plant is dealing with a "performance issue" but is currently operating within safety limits, following a report of a potential radioactive leak.
the taishan nuclear power plant is jointly owned by china guangdong nuclear power group and french multinational electric utility électricité de france, the main owner of framotome, which helps operate the plant.
"framatome is supporting resolution of a performance issue with the taishan nuclear power plant in guangdong province, china," framatome said in a short statement monday.
"according to the data available, the plant is operating within the safety parameters," it said.
"our team is working with relevant experts to assess the situation and propose solutions to address any potential issue.
"radiation levels in hong kong, 135 kilometers (85 miles) from the taishan plant, were normal on monday, according to the hong kong observatory, which monitors radiation around the city.
cnn reported monday that framotome had written to the u. s.  department of energy warning of an "imminent radiological threat" and accusing chinese authorities of raising acceptable limits for radiation outside the plant to avoid having to shut it down.
cnn said u. s.  officials believed the current situation at the plant did not present a severe safety threat.
électricité de france said in a statement monday that it had been informed of the increase in concentration of "certain rare gases" in the primary circuit of reactor no.
1 at the taishan plant.
"the presence of certain rare gases in the primary circuit is a known phenomenon, studied and foreseen by the operating procedures of the reactors," it said.
the utility said it is providing its expertise and has requested that the joint venture company that runs the plant hold a meeting of its board of directors so that management "presents all the data and the necessary decisions.
"chinese authorities in beijing and guangdong did not immediately respond to attempts to seek comment on monday, a public holiday.
the plant issued a statement on sunday saying "at present, continuous monitoring of environmental data shows that the environmental indicators of taishan nuclear power plant and its surroundings are normal.
"it did not refer to any problems, and said "all operating indicators of the two units have met the requirements of nuclear safety regulations and power plant technical specifications.
"the united nation's nuclear watchdog, the international atomic energy agency, told the associated press that it was aware of the media reports and was in contact with its counterpart in china.
"at this stage, the agency has no indication that a radiological incident occurred," the vienna-based iaea said in a written response to questions.
the agency said it would share more information when it became available.
the two reactors entered commercial operation in december 2018 and september 2019, the local city government said on its website.
they are the first of a new type called european pressurized reactors to become operational in the world.
construction began earlier on two other eprs in finland and france, but they continue to face costly delays.
___associated press writer angela charlton in paris contributed to this report.
an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
singapore: singapore will allow travellers from israel to serve part of their 21-day stay-home notice at a place of residence, the ministry of health (moh) said on monday (jun 14).
currently, travellers from israel must spend the entirety of their 21-day stay-home notice at a dedicated facility.
given the improving situation in israel, travellers who have remained in the country for 21 days before arriving in singapore will be allowed to spend the last seven days of their 21-day stay-home notice at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation, said moh.
this measure will take effect for travellers from israel who arrive in singapore from 11.
59pm on jun 16. the health ministry on monday also updated singapore's border measures for travellers from fiji.
"given the worsening situation in fiji, we will be tightening border measures for travellers from fiji" with immediate effect, said moh.
all travellers who have spent time in fiji in the 21 days before arriving in singapore will be required to serve a 21-day stay-home notice at a dedicated facility.
prior to this, travellers from fiji were allowed to spend the last seven days of their stay-home notice at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.
"travellers who have not completed their 14-day stay-home notice at dedicated stay-home notice facilities by 11.
59pm on jun 16, will be required to serve the additional seven days at their current dedicated stay-home notice facility," moh said.
these travellers will be contacted regarding the additional costs to be paid, the health ministry added.
travellers who are currently serving their stay-home notice at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation will be required to complete their 21-day stay-home notice at their current location to minimise movement and risk of transmission, said moh.
all travellers serving a 21-day stay-home notice will undergo covid-19 polymerase chain reaction tests on-arrival, on day 14 of their stay-home notice and before the end of their 21-day stay-home notice period.
the health ministry said it will continue to adjust singapore's border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to the community as the global covid-19 situation evolves.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
stay in the know with a recap of our top stories today.
1.  hong kong star karen mok comes under fire in china for wearing dolce & gabbana in music videothe studio of hong kong pop singer karen mok has been forced to issue an apology after she prompted controversy on chinese social media for.
.
.
» read more 2.
157 suspected serious reactions to covid-19 vaccine reported out of nearly 3.
7 million doses given in singapore: hsathese reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but.
.
.
» read more3.
indian village prays to 'goddess corona' to rid them of the virusdevotees in shuklapur village, in the northern state of uttar pradesh, have been offering.
.
.
» read more4.
from going viral globally for her 'broken' mandarin to dealing with creeps: tiktok creator opens up about the ups and downs of online famerather than being ashamed of her 'broken' mandarin, jessica's made it the.
.
.
» read moreeditor@asiaone.
com
singapore: the recentlandmark accord among the group of seven (g7) nationsfor new tax rules aimed at large multinational corporations (mncs) could see a reduction in  the tax advantage that singapore offers to these businesses, said experts.
but it remains too early to tell how this will impact companies' investment decisions and singapore's attractiveness as a regional and global business hub, they added.
what the deal is aboutfinance ministers from the g7 advanced economies agreed on jun 5 to back the creation of a global minimum corporate tax rate of at least 15 per cent.
they also agreed on allowing countries where an mnc's customers are based to be "awarded taxing rights of 20 per cent profit exceeding a 10 per cent margin", regardless of whether the mnc has physical presence in these markets.
this hopes to end what united states' treasury secretary janet yellen called a "race to the bottom" where countries have competed to lure corporate giants with ultra-low corporate tax rates and exemptions.
current global tax rules, which date back to the 1920s, have also been struggling with the rise of technology giants that sell services remotely and attribute much of their profits to intellectual property held in low-tax jurisdictions.
the g7 accord comes as no surprise, tax experts told cna, given that negotiations have been coordinated by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) for years on rules for taxing cross-border digital services and curbing tax base erosion.
but this is not yet a done deal.
it remains to be seen if the proposals can garner support from the world's top developed and developing countries at the group of twenty (g20) meeting in venice next month, as well as more than 130 countries under the oecd inclusive framework.
g20 member china is among countries that have voiced objections to a global minimum corporate tax rate, reuters reported on jun 10 citing people familiar with the negotiations.
given the complexities of multilateral negotiations, it may take "several years" before the new rules are implemented, said pwc singapore's tax leader chris woo.
"the entire process will likely take some time, from discussions on the technical design features, achieving political consensus, to putting in place domestic legislation and multilateral instruments to give legal effect to these rules," he added.
singapore's finance minister lawrence wong has said it remains "too early to say" how the g7's deal could impact singapore, but as and when a global consensus is reached, the authorities "will make any necessary changes" to the country's corporate tax system.
"we will continue to ensure that our tax system is compatible with international norms, while managing the administrative and compliance burden on businesses," he said in a facebook post earlier this month.
mr wong also stressed that singapore's competitiveness "has never been based on taxation alone".
"trust, reliability and integrity are ultimately what makes singapore an attractive place for substantial economic activities," he wrote.
"neutralise" any tax advantagecurrently, singapore's headline corporate tax rate is at 17 per cent but the effective tax rate of many businesses may be lower than that, or even the proposed global minimum of 15 per cent, due to tax incentives awarded to those seen as beneficial to the country's economic development.
with the proposal of a global minimum rate, "the consequence of a low effective tax rate for mncs in a particular jurisdiction is the triggering of a 'top-up tax' in the jurisdiction of its ultimate parent entity," said mr dean rolfe, kpmg's partner and head of international tax for asia-pacific.
"in view that many international businesses see singapore as an efficient gateway into asia, multinationals will be weighing the impact of the global minimum tax against the efficiency and convenience of operating from singapore to manage their regional business," he added.
mr chester wee, ey asean international corporate tax advisory leader, said: "basically, the global minimum tax proposal will neutralise any tax advantage that an mnc may secure from singapore.
"in addition, the other proposed measure to allow countries where customers are based to tax a greater share of a mnc's profits may also mean "a reduction in the tax base for singapore", he added.
"given singapore's centrally located geographical position, large mnes (multinational enterprises) have set up hubs in singapore to sell goods and services into asia-pacific.
with this profit re-allocation rule, part of the profits from such hub operations may be re-allocated to the market jurisdictions," he said.
that said, there might be a near-term boost.
pwc's mr woo reckoned that singapore "could potentially gain more corporate tax revenue if tax incentives are withdrawn" from the relevant companies once the global minimum corporate tax rate kicks in.
too early to predict impact on investments, economymr wee said these reforms in global tax rules are "creating uncertainty which may cause delays in investment decisions".
those with a presence in singapore and which are affected by the new proposed rules "can certainly be expected to re-assess their investments if singapore's tax incentives no longer present a benefit due to the 'top-up' of taxes," said mr woo.
but there might not be a "uniform response across the board" as certain investments such as those in the technology space, "are more mobile than others", he added.
"big tech can move more easily compared to manufacturing but even then, it depends on availability of a skilled workforce.
others who are seeking to apply other strategies such as the diversification of supply chains or require proximity to markets may be less inclined to move.
what companies that can afford to move will be considering is the non-tax benefits of operating in singapore and whether other measures will be doled out to attract them to remain in singapore, said mr woo.
but while there is the risk, experts told cna that singapore's long-term attractiveness to mncs around the world is unlikely to be dampened based on taxation changes alone.
cimb private bank economist song seng wun said: "singapore isn't an idyllic island under the sun where nothing goes on.
real economic activities are taking place here, with businesses setting up offices and factories because it is attractive for them to do so.
"and not because the tax incentives are attractive if it was just that, anyone can out-incentivise us.
"singapore's infrastructure, rule of law, stable political environment, as well as connectivity to regional and global economies are among the "intangibles that companies also consider beyond the dollar and cents", he added.
"because we know that businesses are in in singapore more than just tax reasons, as long as singapore's overall package remains attractive, (the new tax rules are) not a significant issue at the moment.
"echoing that, kpmg singapore's partner and head of tax ajay kumar sanganeria said "it is too early to predict overall outcomes" but singapore will remain a relevant regional hub due to benefits such as the availability of highly-trained talents, strong protection of intellectual property and its reputation as a global financial hub.
that said, the cost of doing business remains a concern for companies.
to continue attracting mncs, singapore may need to enhance support for innovation, training or other value-added activities, he added.
mr rolfe also mentioned that there is "a very large pool" of mncs that will not be impacted by the proposed global minimum rate and these mncs will continue to be attracted to singapore.
more importantly, the tax reforms do not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as they fall beneath the expected threshold.
"smes represent the majority of economic activity in many jurisdictions and their taxation situation will not change under these proposed rules," said the kpmg tax expert.
"in summary, it is too early to identify the financial impact on singapore," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — all travellers entering singapore who have travel history in the past 21 days to fiji are required to serve a 21-day stay-home notice (shn) at dedicated shn facilities given the "worsening" covid-19 situation in the south pacific country, the ministry of health (moh) said on monday (14 june).
previously, these travellers were subject to a 21-day shn consisting of 14-day shn at dedicated shn facilities and seven days at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.
travellers who have not completed their 14-day shn at dedicated shn facilities by 16 june 2021, 11.
59pm, have to serve the additional seven days at their current dedicated shn facility.
travellers who are currently serving their shn at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation have to complete their 21-day shn at their current location to minimise risk of transmission.
meanwhile, given the "improving situation in israel", travellers from the middle eastern country who have remained in israel in the last 21 days before arrival in singapore from 16 jun 2021, 11.
59pm, will be subject to a 21-day shn comprising 14-day shn at dedicated shn facilities and seven days at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation, the moh said.
previously, all travellers from israel are subject to a 21-day shn at dedicated shn facilities.
all travellers serving 21-day shn will undergo covid-19 polymerase chain reaction tests on arrival, on the 14th day of their shn, and before the end of their 21-day shn period.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfwork-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)man, 60, charged over stabbing at choa chu kang void deckan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
(adds detail on investors, tag for pictures) singapore, june 15 (reuters) singapore-headquartered carro, a southeast asian online automotive marketplace, said on tuesday it has raised $360 million in its latest funding round led by softbank vision fund 2, becoming the region's latest unicorn.
"the valuation for the company is well over a billion dollars," ceo and founder of carro, aaron tan, told reuters.
he did not provide a specific number.
carro will use the fresh capital to expand into new locations and grow its business in its existing markets indonesia, thailand, malaysia, and singapore.
it also plans to expand its portfolio of financial services and accelerate development of artificial intelligence capabilities.
carro's platform allows consumers and wholesale businesses to buy and sell vehicles along with providing insurance and financing services.
other investors in the new round of financing include several prominent indonesian based funds including ev growth, it said.
since being founded in 2015, carro has raised more than $400 million in equity and $200 million in debt.
its previous investors include softbank ventures asia, edbi pte, insignia ventures partners and b capital group.
the company has started preparing internally for an initial public offering (ipo), tan said.
"the plan is to ipo the company, hopefully, in the next 18-24 months in the u. s. , depending on whether the market holds," he said.
while carro saw an initial decline in business due to the covid-19 pandemic, like other digital businesses, the company is now benefiting from users shifting to online transactions.
"people are more willing to buy vehicles entirely online without the need to visit a showroom," he said.
carro booked revenues of $300 million for the year ending march 2021 and has registered positive ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for two years.
(reporting by aradhana aravindan in singapore editing by ed davies) an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
a pop singer in hong kong was forced to apologise after wearing a dolce & gabbana bathrobe in a video for her new song, amid simmering resentment in beijing over the italian fashion house "insulting" china.
karen mok had released a video for a song on her new album the voyage in which she wore a brightly coloured robe from the italian designers.
she also used a photo of herself in the robe as her profile picture on weibo, the chinese microblogging site.
that prompted a backlash as many chinese are angry over a 2018 advertising campaign by dolce & gabbana, where a chinese model was given instructions from a male voiceover on how to use "stick-like" chopsticks to eat an oversized pizza and a© times newspapers limited 2021. registered in england no.
894646.  registered office: 1 london bridge street, se1 9gf.
singapore — a 60-year-old man was charged on monday (14 june) for allegedly stabbing another man at the void deck of a choa chu kang hdb block.
ong eng siew, a singaporean, was charged with repeatedly stabbing 52-year-old ku teck eng on saturday at block 407 choa chu kang avenue 3.  the act was allegedly committed between 9.
20 and 9.
32pm.
court documents did not state the nature of the two men's relationship or why the act was committed.
a police statement on sunday, however, said the men were known to each other.
ong appeared via videolink to receive his charge.
the prosecution applied for him to be remanded so that the case's investigation officer could bring him out to recover evidence, as well as to conduct further investigations on scene.
he will return to court on 21 june.
in its statement, the police said they were alerted to the incident at around 9.
35pm on saturday.
upon arriving at the scene, officers found ku with stab wounds.
he was conveyed to hospital while conscious.
ong fled the scene before the authorities arrived and was arrested within two hours.
those convicted of attempted murder face imprisonment for life and caning.
ong is ineligible for caning as he is over 50 years old.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:singapore reports 13 new covid-19 cases, 10 from the communitycovid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
in his most important public statement for months, boris johnson couldn't manage to say the right date, but never mind, eh?find your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilefind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profile"freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction," ronald reagan famously, and entirely wrongly, said.
freedom may die, it may lie dormant for decades like a plague of cicadas, but it can never go extinct and it can, we now learn, be delayed by yet another four weeks.
freedom day, as widely anticipated, is no longer 21 june but 19 july.
well, probably 19 july anyway.
it could be 29 july as, in his most important public statement for months, boris johnson couldn't quite manage to say the right date, but never mind, eh?it's not his fault.
it's the delta variant's fault.
just like the alpha variant that came along and ruined christmas, along comes the delta variant and ruins freedom day.
and when we say, "along comes", we do very much mean along comes.
along it came, on hundreds of direct flights from india, that carried on for weeks after bangladesh and pakistan were added to the "red list" but not india which was, at that point, about to welcome one boris johnson for an official visit.
so, another four weeks it is then.
this four weeks, by the way, is to allow more time for everyone to be vaccinated, so that the virus can't spread.
since these dates were announced, the uk has had one of the fastest vaccine roll-outs in the world.
it could scarcely have gone any better.
is it reasonable, maybe, to wonder whether freedom day might, maybe, have been scheduled for after that date?
was it, maybe, not altogether wise to lift all restrictions, reopen nightclubs and the like, when the vast, vast majority of people who go to them – young people – had been offered no protection at all?there were some exemptions.
if you've got a wedding booked for between 21 june and 19 july, that will still be allowed to go ahead with unlimited numbers, with the tiny, tiny detail that it'll have to be socially distanced and therefore with no dance floor.
but it can go ahead, so the wedding insurers won't pay out, and the venue won't permit further delay.
so it can go ahead, it'll just be a bit rubbish.
still, try not to get too down about it.
you might have been looking forward to the best day of your life for quite some time, but don't worry.
these things have a tendency to come round again far quicker than you think.
just ask the prime minister.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliesfreedom's just another word: johnson forgets his dates as he announces a push-back of 'freedom day'pawant to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore if you find yourself struggling to spell words like receive and successful, you are not alone.
a recent study by edubirdie, a professional essay writing service, revealed that these are among the most commonly misspelt words found in essays submitted to it by students in the united states, britain, canada and australia for editing between 2019 and 2020. the study analysed the grammatical mistakes made by students in their essays, going through more than 500,000 words in total.
it found that spelling mistakes ranked highest among the types of language errors, which include misplaced modifiers and lack of subject-verb agreement.
english language educators see similar patterns here.
mr benjamin wong, a secondary school teacher, has noticed that the word receive is very commonly misspelt as students here tend to switch the positions of the letters i and e. words like accommodate and convenient are also commonly spelt wrongly.
he attributes a regression in the spelling abilities of younger generations, as compared with older ones, to an over-reliance on automatic spelling correction tools in smartphones and word processors like microsoft word.
"many do not feel the need to learn the correct spelling by heart because they can always use the predictive text and autocorrect function in their phones and laptops.
"mr wong adds that texting could play a role in causing mistakes, as many people do not have enough practice spelling out difficult words in full.
"with texting being the most common mode of communication, many text in shorthand.
for example, instead of spelling 'separate' in full, many type 'sep'.
"ms christabel hong, an english tutor, echoes this sentiment but adds that there could be other reasons for misspelling words.
one factor could be mispronunciation.
words like privilege and mischievous, for example, are frequently misspelt because they are often pronounced incorrectly.
ms hong says changes in form may also lead to mistakes converting the verb explain to the noun explanation, for instance, can be confusing as it involves adding and removing letters.
to improve spelling ability, both educators emphasise the need to make a conscious effort to do so.
mr wong says: "i do believe we have to make a concerted and deliberate attempt to correct our spelling errors by committing the correct spelling to memory.
"top 10 misspelt words1.
tomorrow: misspelt as tommorow2.
which: misspelt as wich3.
completely: misspelt as completly4.
receive: misspelt as recieve5.
until: misspelt as untill6.
finally: misspelt as finaly7.
successful: misspelt as succesful8.
beginning: misspelt as begining9.
definitely: misspelt as definately10.
government: misspelt as goverment• source: edubirdie get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore larger groups of people were seen at some parks and several beauty salons were fully booked on monday (june 14), the first day of the relaxation of covid-19 curbs imposed since last month.
when the straits times visited bishan park and jurong lake gardens on monday morning (june 14), many of those who had gathered in groups of up to five said they were glad they could do so after spending a month cooped up at home.
with two weeks left in the june school holidays, many such groups had young children with them.
civil servant anna wong, 45, was at jurong lake gardens for a walk with her two sons, her mother and a domestic helper.
"my mother lives in a different unit from us.
taking her to the park with the kids was something we wanted to do together," said ms wong.
"it can get pretty stifling if she were to stay indoors all day.
"ms siti muslehat mustaffa and ms mardina majid, both 56, were at bishan park with ms siti's nephew, 10, and ms mardina's two nieces, age nine and 12.  the women, who are friends living together, said the children are from two different households and were staying with them for a day.
"when we heard the new rules, we thought: finally, we can all go out together.
the kids are enjoying it the most because they get to meet one another," said ms siti.
she added the five of them were planning to have lunch together at home after their walk.
ms tessie parro, 38, her son and daughter, and their domestic helper were also at bishan park.
she said the last time they had all gone out together was before may 16.
"during phase two (heightened alert), i had to go out with only one of my kids," she said.
"i feel happy and relieved that it's safe to go out again.
it's the school holidays so my kids have nothing to do and the house can get very chaotic.
when they're outside, they can release their energy by running around.
"ms olga badenova, 42, was spotted with three friends at a badminton court in a housing board estate in kang ching road.
the ballet teacher said she was glad she could resume her usual twice- or thrice-weekly badminton games with her friends, after a month of not being able to play together.
from monday (june 14), groups of up to five people can gather socially again, up from the limit of two imposed as part of heightened alert measures from may 16 to sunday.
capacity limits at attractions like the singapore zoo and gardens by the bay have also been increased to 50 per cent of their usual operating capacity, up from 25 per cent previously.
people at the singapore zoo on june 14, 2021.  capacity limits at attractions have been increased to 50 per cent of their usual operating capacity, up from 25 per cent previously.
st photo: alphonsus chern

people queueing to rent bicycles at east coast park on june 14, 2021.  st photo: mohd khalid baba
with the relaxing of the measures, some businesses such as beauty salons that involve clients removing their masks are also allowed to resume.
ms jerrie man, director of the j studios beauty salon, which has two outlets in jurong east and haji lane, said all slots for facial treatments on monday had been booked.
ms man, 39, said business has been tough lately as customers had to postpone their treatments in the light of the restrictions.
"we closed for three weeks, from the first day of the restrictions till last monday," she said.
"our main source of income has been our regular customers who would contact us to buy products like facial wash. "madam lim joo li, director of beauty horizon aesthetics salon in international plaza, said she was fully booked for appointments for the rest of the week.
"i'm definitely relieved that i can finally open again.
during the circuit breaker last year, we lost some customers who never returned afterwards," said madam lim, 50.
"these included the elderly, whose children felt it wasn't safe for them to be out and about.
"ms lim added she was planning to diversify her services and offer more body treatments that can be done even if customers need to put on their masks.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore ride-hailing operator gojek will halve the commission it receives from its drivers from june 21 till at least the end of 2022 to help them increase their earnings.
this means gojek drivers will get to keep 90 per cent of the fare from every trip, instead of 80 per cent.
the move comes after grab, the dominant ride-hailing operator here, said it would seek to improve drivers' earnings by introducing a $1 fare hike from this month.
gojek said on monday (june 14) that the cut in commission, which it refers to as service fees, will help to lessen the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on its drivers.
it said a survey it conducted found that 50 per cent of drivers want lower service fees for better earnings.
gojek will also introduce a payout of $3 to drivers who have to drive 3km or more to pick-up their passenger, among other measures.
its general manager, mr lien choong luen, said: "the ongoing impact of the pandemic is a consistent worry for our driver-partners as they try to sustain their earnings amid the uncertainty.
"these measures will have a profound impact on the livelihoods of our driver-partners, increasing their take-home earnings while giving them more flexibility by reducing their dependence on incentives.
"gojek said the changes reflect a significant investment in singapore as it seeks to grow its market share here.
it also said that a recent campaign to provide free or discounted rides to and from vaccination sites for all riders in singapore has registered 117,500 rides so far.
several drivers have been calling for ride-hailing operators to cut their commissions to help drivers tide over the impact of the pandemic.
while grab has not announced a cut of its 20 per cent commission rate, it said last month that it will permanently raise fares by $1 from this month to improve driver earnings amid rising fuel and maintenance costs.
it will not collect commission on the additional $1 from june 1 to june 30.  this means drivers will get $1 more for every ride they complete with grab for a month.
associate professor walter theseira of the singapore university of social sciences said that gojek's move to lower driver commissions has not been seen for years in the local market.
prof theseira, who teaches economics and looks at urban transport issues, noted that what matters most for drivers is their take-home earnings, which is also affected by the number of passengers a platform can attract.
"gojek would very likely have to combine commission cuts to drivers with measures to encourage commuters to switch," he added.
"otherwise, you would have more drivers chasing the same number of commuters, which means  their take-home earnings could go down after switching to gojek.
"ms yeo wan ling, adviser to the national private hire vehicles association, said the association welcomes gojek's decision to cut its commission rates.
"we foresee that the road to recovery during phase 3 (heightened alert) and beyond will take time, and we hope that this is something that other private hire platforms can also consider to support our drivers' livelihoods and well-being," she added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there have been reports from numerous countries of animals, including pets, getting infected with covid-19.
last week, an asiatic lion at a zoo in india died from it.
its death prompted the testing of dozens of elephants at a forest reserve in the country.
tigers in india have also been tested.
russia reportedly started vaccinating pets at veterinary clinics with its carnivak-cov vaccine in late may.
the straits times (st) answers some common questions about animals and covid-19.
a: a small number of animals, including pet dogs, mink raccoon dogs and zoo animals such as tigers and lions have tested positive for covid-19 after coming into contact with infected individuals.
two cases of human-to-cat covid-19 transmission in the united kingdom were reported in the journal veterinary research in late april, providing further evidence of such spread.
"one had mild illness and the other severe.
the viral strains in both cats were very similar to human strains," said professor paul tambyah from the nus yong loo lin school of medicine.
covid-19 infections in farmed mink have also been reported in at least 10 countries.
millions of the animals, which are valued for their fur, have been culled to prevent future spillover events to humans.
a: there are very few reports of an animal passing covid-19 back to humans, though there were reports of mink farmers in northern europe infected by strains that moved from humans to mink and back to humans, said prof tambyah.
the vast majority of the millions of sars-cov-2 infections have been human-to-human transmissions and it appears that animal-to-human transmission is extremely rare, he added.
the world organisation for animal health (oie) said that animals do not play a significant role in the covid-19 pandemic, which is being sustained through human-to-human transmission.
a: confirmed cases in cats and dogs are extremely rare and generally result in mild symptoms, said the world small animal veterinary association (wsava) in the united states.
no dog or cat is known to have died from the infection to date, it said.
people with suspected or confirmed covid-19 infection should avoid contact with animals, including pets, livestock and wildlife, said the us centres for disease control and prevention (cdc).
if you suspect your pet has covid-19, you can contact the national parks board's animal and veterinary services.
it conducts biosurveillance and is able to do the right kind of polymerase chain reaction testing for sars-cov-2 in animals, said prof tambyah.
a: no.
prof tambyah said there are no licensed covid-19 vaccines for animals here.
the wsava said there have been no cases in which a dog or a cat has been proven to transmit the virus to people.
there is no need for owners to consider vaccinating their pets against sars-cov-2 at this time, it said.
"as sars-cov-2 infection of dogs and cats most commonly originates from an infected human, the best way to protect a pet is to vaccinate the owners so that they are less likely to infect their pet," it said in a late april statement.
in the us last year, veterinary pharmaceutical firm zoetis started development activities for a vaccine, based on initial concerns about sars-cov-2 in domestic animals.
"if regulatory authorities determine there is a need, we are prepared to act quickly to further develop our covid-19 vaccine for animals," ms christina lood, its senior director of innovation and sustainability communications, told st. a: the exact origins of sars-cov-2 are yet to be determined.
it could be many years before we know for sure.
the common belief so far is that sars-cov-2 likely originated from bats, a known reservoir of coronaviruses, and jumped to humans through an unknown intermediary animal host, like a pangolin.
still, a june 7 report by researchers from china west normal university and oxford university found that more than 47,000 live animals were sold at wuhan wet markets from may 2017 to november 2019, but no pangolins or bats were traded.
there are other hypotheses, including the politically charged theory that sars-cov-2 was leaked from a laboratory in china.
the oie estimates that at least 75 per cent of emerging infectious diseases affecting humans, including ebola, hiv and influenza, have an animal origin.
a: the four wildlife parks here already have strict protocols, such as quarantining new animals, to prevent cross transmission of diseases from humans to animals under their care and vice versa, said a wildlife reserves singapore (wrs) spokesman.
the covid-19 outbreak led to more measures, including the need for staff to wash their hands with soap and water before interacting with an animal, as well as donning face masks and gloves when working with an animal.
they also minimise or avoid direct contact unless required, especially with higher-risk species such as primates and carnivores.
"as added preventive measures, our great apes such as the orangutans and chimpanzees also undergo temperature checks twice a day," said the wrs spokesman.
he said the risk of humans contracting covid-19 from animals is very low.
"in addition, our veterinarians assess that due to the low number of community cases in singapore, coupled with the extra precaution we have taken to care for our animals, the risk of our animals contracting covid-19 is very low," he said.
none of the zoo animals here has been infected with covid-19.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the people's association (pa) has withdrawn its offer to meet a malay/muslim couple whose photo was used as a standee for hari raya aidilfitri decorations without permission, citing disagreements with them over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, had posted on social media on may 28 about the inappropriate use of her wedding photograph at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
however, in a facebook post on monday (june 14), the pa, which oversees various grassroots groups, said it saw no point in going ahead with the meeting, citing ms sarah's recent comments on the matter.
the pa said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and was "racist".
the agency rejected these claims, saying: "while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments.
"it also noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting.
"we find this odd.
we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," the pa added.
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"the couple's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
the vendor came up with the concept and design, and downloaded and used the photo from an online source for the standee.
after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also made references to two instagram stories ms sarah had posted recently in explaining its response.
in the first instagram story, ms sarah reshared an instagram story by another instagram user, @jeanpsychologist and in the second, ms sarah penned a series of reflections on the incident.
photos: sarahbagharib/instagram
in the first, she reshared an instagram story by another instagram user, @jeanpsychologist, who had responded to an instagram post ms sarah had made.
user @jeanpsychologist thanked ms sarah for posting on the incident, and called for chinese singaporeans to "educate ourselves on our conditioned racism", saying this is "long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them".
in the second instagram story, ms sarah penned a series of reflections on the incident, and said she was thankful to those who had stood in solidarity with her and her husband as well as other ethnic minorities in the aftermath of "this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed)".
the pa also claimed ms sarah had insinuated in an online talk show on june 7 that pa's staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
she had been asked by host walid jumblatt abdullah, an assistant professor from nanyang technological university, whether she would accept an invitation from mr yong to meet in person if he had made such an offer.
ms sarah replied she would, wondered if the mp had seen the standee, and added that "something is definitely wrong" if he had seen the standee and did not say anything about it.
she also referred to someone's comment about internalised racism, and spoke about how some people are blind to racism, or feel there is nothing wrong with racism as it does not impact them.
in its post, the pa stressed it remains steadfast in its mission to promote racial harmony, and that its grassroots organisations, such as the malay activity executive committees council and narpani pearavai, play a key role in representing the interests of the malay and indian communities.
"we regularly reach out to numerous community partners among all our races and religions to ensure their concerns are actively considered when designing our programmes," it added.
the pa also said that what happened at radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
"we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures.
singaporeans becoming 'one people' is a work in progress and so is the pa. "the pa also said ms sarah's allegation in her e-mail on june 1, that the pa was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" to "distance and deflect blame" from itself, was untrue.
it said the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on may 28 and apologised, before the pa issued its statement on may 29. the straits times has contacted ms sarah for comment.
she had written on instagram on june 1, after acknowledging pa's apology: "as an ethnic minority, this isn't new seeing others have a superficial understanding of my culture and then feeling like i have to explain it is.
.
.
exhausting.
but i want to help bridge that gap where possible through real and respectful conversations so that we can move beyond superficial understanding and promote deeper social cohesion.
"a post shared by sarah bagharib (@sarahbagharib)in her june 7 talk show, she also said she had spoken up about the incident as she would like to see more "tangible accountability" from the pa to ensure such incidents do not happen again.
this includes hearing about steps that they will take.
she also noted that when minorities speak up about their experiences, they are not doing so in order to incite racial disharmony.
the pa said in its post: "enhancing our understanding of singapore's various races, religions and cultures is a ceaseless effort this lapse having been a good reminder of this.
.
.
we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the chief justice on monday (june 14) allowed an application by the law society of singapore to investigate a complaint against a bankrupt non-practising lawyer.
the complaint was made against ms helen chia chwee imm, who has been a lawyer for more than 20 years.
she was bankrupt and did not have a valid practising certificate when she allegedly claimed to be a practising lawyer and borrowed $60,000 from a client and the client's mother.
the client engaged ms chia around december 2016 to represent her in matrimonial proceedings involving the care and custody of her child.
in november 2017, the client applied to the family justice courts for the care and custody of her child, after she was advised to do so by ms chia.
mediation was scheduled on dec 18 that year.
but, about a week before the mediation date, ms chia told the client that she was an undischarged bankrupt, and thus unable to represent her.
anxious, the client then lent ms chia $40,000, purportedly to allow her to discharge her bankruptcy and represent the client.
the mediation did not proceed on the scheduled day as ms chia could not attend on behalf of the client, and the case was fixed for hearing in april 2018. ms chia is alleged to have approached the client's mother in february 2018 and borrowed another $20,000 from her.
in march 2018, ms chia allegedly told the client that she was joining another firm, and that her case would also be transferred to the new firm.
the client agreed to this, but did not know that ms chia was still an undischarged bankrupt without a valid practising certificate at the time.
when the hearing took place in april, another lawyer turned up to represent the client instead of ms chia.
the client's application failed, and the client later filed an appeal.
ms chia was finally discharged as a bankrupt in may 2018. from june to september 2018, ms chia and the client discussed the appeal and the repayment of the sum owed by ms chia.
court documents said their relationship soured because of the unpaid loans and the client's unhappiness over how ms chia had handled the case.
the client discharged ms chia in september 2018 and hired new lawyers.
ms chia repaid the loans later that month after numerous acrimonious whatsapp exchanges and a letter of demand sent by the client's new lawyers.
the client's appeal for her case succeeded in august 2019, and she lodged a complaint with the law society against ms chia a month later.
the law society formed an inquiry committee to look into the complaint, and ms chia claimed that she was suffering from depression because of "several emotionally draining matters", but did not produce any medical reports to show this.
the inquiry also discovered that ms chia did not have a valid practising certificate from december 2016 to may 2018. as a result of this, the committee did not make any further findings as the law society requires leave to investigate a non-practising lawyer.
it then made the application to the court to be allowed to investigate the complaint.
ms chia objected to this, saying the application could only be made by the client, and not the law society.
on monday, chief justice sundaresh menon allowed the application for leave to be granted.
in his 29-page grounds of decision, he noted the severity of the allegations of misconduct and the strong evidence.
the law society had also made the application to the court without delay once it realised ms chia was not a practising lawyer at the time.
the chief justice said the prior proceedings by the law society's inquiry committee did not prejudice ms chia, and there was no evidence given proving her purported depression.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: private-sector economists have once again raised their 2021 growth forecasts for the singapore economy, according to the latest quarterly survey by the monetary authority of singapore (mas) released on monday (jun 14).
the 24 economists polled are expecting the economy to grow 6.
5 per cent this year, up from theearlier forecast of 5.
8 per centand the second upgrade they have made in six months.
this is also higher than the 4 per cent to 6 per cent forecast range that the ministry of trade and industry left unchanged last month, citing "heightened uncertainties" arising from the global covid-19 pandemic.
singapore saw a spike in local community infections in recent months and on may 16 tightened restrictions under what authorities called aphase 2 (heightened alert)in order to stem transmissions.
this included increasing the cap on social gatherings to two people, banning dining-in at restaurants and returning to work-from-home as the default.
some of these tightened measures werelifted on mondayas the number of community cases fell, with the limit on group sizes back up to five people.
if the situation remains under control, dine-ins will once again be possible from jun 21. economists had previously said the temporary move to tighten curbswould not throw the economic recovery off course.
in the latest mas survey released on monday, they pencilled in year-on-year growth of 15 per cent for the second quarter which lasts from april to june.
this is higher than the earlier estimate of 14.
6 per cent.
for the year ahead, the manufacturing sector remains a key bright spot in the economy.
the sector, which makes up about one-fifth of singapore's economy, is expected to grow 8.
3 per cent, well above the forecast of 4.
7 per cent three months ago.
the outlook also brightened for the finance and insurance sector at 6 per cent, a slight upgrade from the 5.
8 per cent in the previous survey; as well as for non-oil domestic exports which is seen rising 7.
5 per cent this year compared with the last 6.
9 per cent estimate.
the battered construction sector remains on track for a recovery this year, although its growth outlook has been trimmed to 19.
3 per cent from 22.
5 per cent previously.
among the others with a dimmer outlook, growth for the accommodation and food services sector is now at 6.
5 per cent, nearly halving from the 11 per cent expected three months ago.
expectations for private consumption is also down to 5.
2 per cent from 7.
9 per cent, while wholesale and retail trade is seen rising 4.
4 per cent, down marginally from the last 4.
5 per cent forecast.
the labour market is set to improve marginally as economists expect the unemployment rate to reach 2.
7 per cent by the end of the year, compared with the earlier expected 2.
9 per cent.
an escalation of the covid-19 situation remained the top downside risk to growth, said the economists.
this is followed by geopolitical tensions and a slower-than-expected labour market recovery that could weigh on private consumption.
as for upside risks, these include a containment of the pandemic, a stronger-than-expected performance from the manufacturing sector and the possibility of borders reopening for international travel.
further ahead in 2022, the singapore economy is set to expand by 4 per cent.
the mas survey was sent out on may 25 to close private-sector watchers of the singapore economy.
the findings do not represent the central bank's views or forecasts, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                singapore reports 10 new covid-19 community infections, including 2 unlinked.
singapore's total cases on sunday (june 13, 2021) now stands at 62, 276.  the straits times/annsingapore, june 13 (the straits times/ann): there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62, 276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
meanwhile, 266 people who have mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19 are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
altogether 34 people have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection in singapore.
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sunday (june 13)
                                                                ,
                                                                                                only 13
                                                                ,
                                                                                                situation
                                                                ,
                                                                                                under control



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore more than 2,500 workers have been tested for covid-19 at jewel changi airport, which reopened on monday (june 14) after a month-long closure.
all the test results were negative.
close to 90 per cent of eligible staff have also taken at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine, the mall management said on monday.
to help businesses affected by the closure, full rental waiver will be extended by another week, from monday to sunday, said ms hung jean, chief executive of jewel changi airport development.
additional rental assistance will also be given to tenants for the week of june 21 to june 27.  jewel did not say how much additional assistance it will provide.
said ms hung: "we are cognisant that it will take time to ramp up footfall at jewel as singapore cautiously moves into phase 3 (heightened alert) with a gradual easing of restrictions.
"precautionary measures have also been stepped up.
this includes the purging of air-conditioned air two hours before opening hours.
during the closure period, thorough cleaning and disinfection of the premises, including tenanted spaces, was carried out, although no covid-19 cases were detected at jewel.
visitors mostly families with young children started arriving as shops and eateries in the mall began to open at about 10am.
while the spectre of the recent covid-19 outbreak at changi airport that led to the month-long closure continues to linger on the minds of some business owners, customers who spoke to the straits times were assured by the measures put in place to prevent another outbreak.
mrs chua zi yun, 30, who was at jewel with her husband and their two sons, age three and one, said it was the same as visiting any other shopping mall.
"they have already cleaned the place and sanitised everything and it is not open to the terminal buildings where they are receiving foreigners, so i think it is quite safe," said the civil servant.
"it is a good place for the kids to run around, so that's why we are here even though we live in the west.
i figured there wouldn't be a lot of people today since it is the first day (of reopening).
"mrs chua added: "if we just do our part, wear our masks and do not go too close to other people, i think we will be fine.
"a technician who wanted to be known only as mr raemi, 52, was at the mall on his day off with his wife.
he shared the same sentiments.
"(the closure) was for the common good.
it needed to be done.
i'm not worried.
i believe the authorities have done a thorough deep cleaning," he said.
mr raemi added that he and his wife had been looking forward to jewel's reopening and had travelled from their home in western singapore to the mall.
"we do enjoy our time here.
there are not many places where you can have the luxury of space and (have everything) under one roof.
"some tenants, such as burger joint shake shack, were encouraged by the initial turnout on monday and expect sales to pick up over the weekend.
others, however, said they foresee business to be slow given the continued ban on dining in and the dearth of tourists at the mall.
some tenants, such as burger joint shake shack, were encouraged by the initial turnout on monday and expect sales to pick up over the weekend.
st photo: lim yaohui


additional rental assistance will be given to tenants for the week of june 21 to june 27, 2021.  st photo: lim yaohui
besides stepping up its precautionary measures, jewel is also offering free parking from 10am to 11pm daily to attract visitors.
the mall is open 24 hours, but most shops operate from 10am to 10pm.
shake shack singapore's operations director cami soh said the free parking, which will last until july 11, will go some way towards getting people back into the mall and is also good for deliverymen.
while she could not share any sales figures, ms soh said she was happy with how the first day of reopening had gone.
"initially, we thought that people would be afraid of coming to jewel after the outbreak, but we are seeing crowds.
.
.
we think we will do even better over the next few days," she added.
ms soh said she expects sales to pick up even further once dining in is allowed to resume.
this is slated to take place from june 21. mr mark shaw, director of shaw organisation, which operates the shaw theatres chain, said what has hurt the firm's bottom line is the lack of concession sales due to the ban on dining in.
he added: "all cinemas are very dependent on selling soft drinks and popcorn.
obviously we're slightly disappointed that (dining in) hasn't reopened together with the theatres, (but) we are quite confident that jewel's management and their marketing teams will be on point and get it out there that jewel is open for business.
"caerus holding, which manages local outlets of luke's lobster and confectionery chain lady m, said sales have slowed as it was not only hit by jewel's closure but also by the temporary closure of westgate, where it has a lady m outlet.
said its chief operating officer geraldine liew: "while we're definitely glad about the declining community cases and the return of dining in, we do foresee lower mall traffic.
"jewel was shut on may 13 along with changi airport terminals 1 and 3 to stem the spread of a growing covid-19 cluster that originated from terminal 3. 

visitors at jewel changi airport on june 14, 2021.  st photo: lim yaohui

people playing at the manulife sky nets in jewel changi airport's canopy park on june 14, 2021.  st photo: lim yaohui
the risk of a further outbreak at the airport, and at jewel, appears to have abated as the most recent cases linked to the t3 cluster tested positive on may 22 more than three weeks ago.
in all, 108 people, including 43 airport workers, were infected.
the civil aviation authority of singapore and changi airport group (cag) said last friday that deep cleaning and disinfection of jewel and the passenger terminals was completed and new safety measures segregating 14,000 airport workers into three distinct zones based on risk level are in place.
the airport's passenger terminal buildings will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adjust to the new zoning system, the authorities had said.
​some businesses at the passenger terminals and jewel told the straits times earlier this month that they have adapted to disruptions brought on by the pandemic in the past year, such as by reducing the number of staff at the airport and switching to online sales.
some have settled for just covering their costs as they await a recovery in air travel.
the full rental waiver provided by cag during the period of closure, as well as the government's additional wage support from april to this month, has provided much-needed relief.
the manager of a food and beverage outlet at jewel said on monday that he was glad to reopen after being forced to close for the past month.
the 35-year-old, who declined to be named, told st that the sudden closure of jewel last month led to a week's worth of inventory going to waste.
while the outlet was able to do deliveries and takeaways during the eight-week circuit breaker last year, they were not able to do so during the month-long closure of jewel, leading to an 80 per cent fall in sales.
the f&b outlet has had to run on a lean team of just five people for fear of another closure or lockdown.
reopening brings with it another set of challenges ensuring patrons comply with safe distancing measures, he said.
still, the manager was glad to be back at work.
"for us tenants, at least there is something for us to do now instead of staying at home," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
bangkok: thailand'srecently launched coronavirus vaccination campaignwas hit by confusion in the capital on monday (jun 14) after at least 20 hospitals in bangkok postponed covid-19 inoculation appointments set for this week, citing delays in vaccine deliveries.
the hospital announcements were made on their facebook pages, while bangkok's vaccine booking app also sent messages saying appointments after tuesday would be delayed, as officials sought to reassure the public over vaccine supplies.
"there may have been confusion because private hospitals did not check with the bangkok administration," health minister anutin charnvirakul told reporters on monday, adding that more doses were being delivered to bangkok.
thailand's main vaccine drive is depending on 61 million shots from astrazeneca, produced by siam bioscience, a company owned by the country's powerful king.
there have been concerns about a possible shortfall in production, with several countries in the region reporting delays in orders of thai-made shots.
astrazeneca and siam bioscience have not responded to reuters requests for comment on production delays, though the anglo-swedish drugmaker said it was working with southeast asia's governments on vaccine deliveries.
.
thailand currently offers astrazeneca and china's sinovac shots.
"we are not slowing down vaccinations, but there should be a calculation of the doses received," anutin said.
in a separate briefing, bangkok governor aswin kwanmuang said there had been some "technical errors" in delivery of vaccines and the city had notified those who registered between jun 15-21.
"we will vaccinate as quickly as possible once we receive the vaccines," said aswin.
thailand has recorded a total of 199,264 covid-19 infections and 1,466 deaths.
over 80 per cent of the new cases and 90 per cent of fatalities have been reported after april, putting pressure on authorities to speed up vaccinations.
so far, 1.
6 million people out of a population of more than 66 million are fully vaccinated, below the rates achieved by some neighbours.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore (reuters) singapore-based car marketplace carro said on tuesday (june 15) it has raised us$360 million (s$478 million) in its latest funding round led by softbank vision fund 2, becoming the region's latest unicorn.
"the valuation for the company is well over a billion dollars," ceo and founder of carro, aaron tan, told reuters.
he did not provide a specific number.
a unicorn is a privately held start-up valued at over us$1 billion.
carro will use the fresh capital to expand into new locations and grow its business in its existing markets indonesia, thailand, malaysia, and singapore.
it also plans to expand its portfolio of financial services and accelerate development of artificial intelligence capabilities.
carro's platform allows consumers and wholesale businesses to buy and sell vehicles along with providing insurance and financing services.
other investors in the new round of financing include several prominent indonesian-based funds including ev growth, it said.
since being founded in 2015, carro has raised more than us$400 million in equity and us$200 million in debt.
its previous investors include softbank ventures asia, edbi pte, insignia ventures partners and b capital group.
the company has started preparing internally for an initial public offering (ipo), mr tan said.
"the plan is to ipo the company, hopefully, in the next 18-24 months in the us, depending on whether the market holds," he said.
while carro saw an initial decline in business due to the covid-19 pandemic, like other digital businesses, the company is now benefiting from users shifting to online transactions.
"people are more willing to buy vehicles entirely online without the need to visit a showroom," he said.
carro booked revenues of us$300 million for the year ending march 2021 and has registered positive ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for two years.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
washington: jerry ramos spent his final days in a california hospital, hooked to an oxygen machine with blood clots in his lungs from covid-19, his 3-year-old daughter in his thoughts.
"i have to be here to watch my princess grow up," the mexican american restaurant worker wrote on facebook.
"my heart feels broken into pieces.
"ramos didn't live to see it.
he died feb 15 at age 32, becoming not just one of the nearly 600,000 americans who have now perished in the coronavirus outbreak but another example of the outbreak's strikingly uneven and ever-shifting toll on the nation's racial and ethnic groups.
the approaching 600,000 mark, as tracked by johns hopkins university, is greater than the population of baltimore or milwaukee.
it is about equal to the number of americans who died of cancer in 2019.  and as bad as that is, the true toll is believed to be significantly higher.
president joe biden acknowledged the milestone on monday (jun 14) during his visit to europe, saying that while new cases and deaths are dropping dramatically in the us, "there's still too many lives being lost", and "now is not the time to let our guard down".
on the way to the latest round-number milestone, the virus has proved adept at exploiting inequalities in the us, according to an associated press data analysis.
in the first wave of fatalities, in april 2020, black people were slammed, dying at rates higher than those of other ethnic or racial groups as the virus rampaged through the urban northeast and heavily african american cities like detroit and new orleans.
last summer, during a second surge, hispanics were hit the hardest, suffering an outsize share of deaths, driven by infections in texas and florida.
by winter, during the third and most lethal stage, the virus had gripped the entire nation, and racial gaps in weekly death rates had narrowed so much that whites were the worst off, followed closely by hispanics.
now, even as the outbreak ebbs and more people get vaccinated, a racial gap appears to be emerging again, with black americans dying at higher rates than other groups.
overall, black and hispanic americans have less access to medical care and are in poorer health, with higher rates of conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure.
they are also more likely to have jobs deemed essential, less able to work from home and more likely to live in crowded, multigenerational households, where working family members are apt to expose others to the virus.
black people account for 15 per cent of all covid-19 deaths where race is known, while hispanics represent 19 per cent, whites 61 per cent and asian americans 4 per cent.
those figures are close to the groups' share of the us population black people at 12 per cent, hispanics 18 per cent, whites 60 per cent and asians 6 per cent but adjusting for age yields a clearer picture of the unequal burden.
because blacks and hispanics are younger on average than whites, it would stand to reason that they would be less likely to die from a disease that has been brutal to the elderly.
but that's not what is happening.
instead, the centers for disease control and prevention, adjusting for population age differences, estimates that native americans, latinos and blacks are two to three times more likely than white people to die of covid-19.
also, the ap analysis found that latinos are dying at much younger ages than other groups.
thirty-seven per cent of hispanic deaths were of those under 65, versus 12 per cent for white americans and 30 per cent for black people.
hispanic people between 30 and 39 like ramos have died at five times the rate of white people in the same age group.
public health experts see these disparities as a loud message that the nation needs to address deep-rooted inequities.
"if we want to respect the dear price that 600,000 people have paid, don't return to normal.
return to something that is better than what was," said dr clyde yancy, vice dean for diversity and inclusion at northwestern university's medical school in chicago.
he added: "it will be an epic fail if we simply go back to whatever we call normal.
"ramos had asthma and diabetes and had quit his job as a chef at red lobster before the pandemic because of diabetes-related trouble with his feet.
he died during the devastating winter surge that hit latinos hard, and the rest of his household of seven in watsonville, an agricultural city of around 54,000 people about 90 miles south of san francisco, also got sick.
that included his toddler daughter; the family matriarch, 70-year-old mercedes ramos; and his girlfriend, who was the only one in the household working and the first to get infected, bringing home the virus from her job managing a marijuana dispensary, according to family members.
mother and son were admitted to the same hospital, their rooms nearby.
they would video chat or call each other every day.
"he would tell me he loved me very much and that he wanted me to get better and that he was doing fine, but he was telling me that so i wouldn't worry," mercedes ramos said in spanish, her voice breaking.
she has since returned to her job picking strawberries.
gaps in vaccination rates in the us also persist, with blacks and hispanics lagging behind, said samantha artiga of the kaiser family foundation, a nonpartisan health-policy research organisation.
experts say several factors could be at work, including deep distrust of the medical establishment among black americans because of a history of discriminatory treatment, and fears of deportation among latinos, as well as a language barrier in many cases.
the us was averaging about 870,000 injections per day in early june, down sharply from a high of about 3.
3 million a day on average in mid-april, according to the cdc.
initial vaccine eligibility policies, set by states, favoured older americans, a group more likely to be white.
now, everyone over 12 is eligible, but obstacles remain, such as concerns about missing work because of side effects from the shot.
"eligibility certainly does not equal access," artiga said.
"losing a day or two of wages can have real consequences for your family.
people are facing tough decisions like that.
"the ap's analysis of the outbreak's racial and ethnic patterns was based on national center for health statistics data on covid-19 deaths and 2019 census bureau population estimates.
it's less clear who is dying now, but the still-incomplete data suggests a gap has emerged again.
in michigan, black people are 14 per cent of the population but accounted for 25 per cent of the 1,064 deaths reported in the past four weeks, according to the most recent available state data.
similar gaps were seen in florida and pennsylvania.
"for people of colour like myself, we've had deep personal experiences during the pandemic" of caring for loved ones and sometimes losing them, said yolanda ogbolu, a nurse researcher at the university of maryland, baltimore.
ogbolu, who is black, made herself an advocate for two relatives during their covid-19 hospital stays: her 50-year-old police officer brother she persuaded his doctors to treat him with the drug remdesivir and her 59-year-old repairman uncle.
she called the hospital daily during his 100-day stay.
both survived.
but ogbolu wonders whether they would have lived if they hadn't had a nurse in the family.
"what happens when people don't have that person to push for them?
what happens when you don't even speak the language?"
ogbolu said.
"what happens when they don't know how to navigate the health system or what questions to ask?
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
ever had a nightmare of being eaten alive?
it almost came true for a lobster diver.
michael packard was swallowed by a humpback whale on june 11, off cape cod, massachusetts, when he was diving for lobsters.
after jumping off his vessel and diving 14 meters deep into the sea, he felt a "huge bump and everything went dark around [him]".
he thought he was attacked by a great white shark, which was common around the area, but realised that there were no teeth around him and that he did not feel any pain.
in an interview with cbs boston, he said: "and then i realised: 'oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth and he's trying to swallow me.
this is it, i'm going die'".
he was in the creature's mouth for about 30 seconds, packard said.
the whale then suddenly emerged to the surface, started shaking its head, and spat him out.
packard was then hauled back onto the boat by his crewmate who had been scanning the water for air bubbles from his oxygen respirator.
[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cp_hyf2jhlp/[/embed]despite the scare, the lobster diver said in a facebook post the following day: "i am very bruised up but have no broken bones.
"he only suffered a suspected dislocated knee and bruises on his legs from the incident and was soon rescued by the provincetown fire department.
such human-whale encounters are rare, a whale expert told cape cod times, as humpback whales, which feed mainly on krill and fish, are not aggressive.
packard's experience is likely to be accidental, as the whales "do what we call gulp feeding, and they can open their mouths up incredibly widely," experts told nbc boston.
also read: whale nearly swallows south african conservationistxavierpoh@asiaone.
com
a top chinese virologist facing scrutiny amid theories the covid pandemic could have originated in her lab has dismissed the concerns as "filth" being poured on an "innocent scientist".
in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, shi zhengli, a scientist at the wuhan institute of virology (wiv), has been praised for helping her country curb the spread of the virus, while also being at the centre of swirling conspiracy theories over its origins.
addressing the claims, the virologist, who has been dubbed "bat woman" by some, told the new york times there was "no evidence" to support the allegations against her lab.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
she said.
in a text message, she also reportedly wrote: "i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist.
"the idea that covid-19 could have escaped from a lab has long been dismissed by members of the scientific community, while others have derided such theories due to their connection with former president donald trump.
however, calls from his successor, president joe biden, for a transparent investigation into the origins of covid-19 have brought the theory back under the spotlight.
and with world health organization (who) director-general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus saying during a g7 briefing on the pandemic that "every hypothesis should be open" in the bid to understand the origins of covid-19, it seems all lines of inquiry are on the table.
scientists still generally appear to agree that there is no clear evidence to support the possibility of a lab leak leading to the spread of covid-19.
however, calls for a thorough and transparent investigation have been backed by members of the scientific community, particularly in the wake of reports citing american intelligence of several employees of the wiv falling ill as the pandemic began to take root.
dr shi has denied that several of her colleagues were ill before the outbreak's emergence, according to the times.
the chinese government has also not given any indication that dr shi's lab is under any degree of suspicion in connection with the coronavirus outbreak.
the virologist has been able to continue her work and give lectures in the country.
in a recent letter in the journal science, 18 scientists called for a transparent investigation to look into all possible scenarios, including the possibility of a lab leak.
the letter also stresses the importance of a "dispassionate science-based discourse" on the origins of the covid-19 pandemic, with researchers noting the rise of "anti-asian sentiment in some countries" in the midst of the pandemic.
"in this time of unfortunate anti-asian sentiment in some countries, we note that at the beginning of the pandemic, it was chinese doctors, scientists, journalists, and citizens who shared with the world crucial information about the spread of the virus – often at great personal cost," the letter states.
"we should show the same determination in promoting a dispassionate science-based discourse on this difficult but important issue," researchers write.
speaking with the times, david relman a microbiologist at stanford university who co-authored the letter, said: "this has nothing to do with fault or guilt.
""it's just bigger than any one scientist or institute or any one country – anybody anywhere who has data of this sort needs to put it out there," he said.
read moreworkers push back against hospitals requiring covid vaccinesus bans dogs brought in from 100 countries with rabies riskus intel report warns of more violence by qanon followerschristopher sign broke story of tarmac meeting between bill clinton and ag loretta lynch during 2016 campaign between hillary and trumpthe first-of-its kind heavy launcher aims to carry the first in a series of missions to bring humans back to the moon by 2024. have you considered how you'll withdraw your retirement income?
these simple mistakes could cost you thousands of dollars.
new species could have been close to seven metres in length, scientists sayazeem ahktar, 29, was jailed for eight years at harrow crown court after admitting a range of offences following a traffic stop that led to police finding a sub-machine gun and ammunition, drugs and cash at his address in brent.
a 76-year-old man who had 39 wives and 94 children and was said to be the head of the world's largest family has died in north east india, the chief minister of his home state said.
ziona chana, the head of a local christian sect that allows polygamy, died on sunday, zoramthanga, the chief minister of mizoram and who goes by one name, said in a tweet.
with a total of 167 members, the family is the world's largest, according to local media, although this depends on whether you count the grandchildren, of whom ziona has 33. read this before going solar in texas.
[you'll likely qualify!
]fox news sundayfox news anchor chris wallace confronted former secretary of state mike pompeo on sunday over the lack of hard evidence provided by the trump administration to prove that covid-19 originated from a chinese lab, telling pompeo he had "almost a year" to prove the theory.
with circumstantial evidence indicating that it is possible that the virus behind a worldwide pandemic could have leaked out of a lab in wuhan, president joe biden has called for the intelligence community to "redoub"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gain-of-function experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she told the new york times.
heart disease is the leading cause of mortality around the world, with heart attacks and strokes accounting for roughly a third of all deaths each year.
and according to new data released this week by the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), last year saw record high numbers of heart-related deaths.
"in raw numbers, there were about 32,000 more heart disease deaths than the year before," nbc news reported, citing the cdc's data.
while the health authority offered its statistics withoget a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
the charm meson has a light and heavy version that helps distinguish between its matter and antimatter statesthe inherited piece features pearls and diamonds.
americans michael taylor and peter taylor pleaded guilty in a tokyo court monday to helping former nissan chair carlos ghosn escape japan in a box aboard a plane in 2019, per the wall street journal.
the big picture: ghosn was awaiting trial in tokyo on financial misconduct charges following his 2018 arrest when he fled to lebanon.
he denies any wrongdoing.
get market news worthy of your time with axios markets.
subscribe for free.
michael taylor, a 60-year-old private security specialist and formeif you pay more than $99/month for power and own a home in texas, you better read this.
evidence that includes newly unearthed chinese government video continues to mount indicating the wuhan institute of virology studied live bats in its lab, despite longtime lab collaborator peter daszak calling this a "conspiracy theory.
"texas hospital employees filed suit over the requirement that they get the shot or they'd lose their jobs, comparing the vaccine to nazi atrocities.
former president's campaign staff has sent cease and desist letters to candidates claiming they have his supportmagtein® is a magnesium supplement clinically proven to cross the blood-brain barrier and enhance memory, focus and attention.
try risk free!trevor reed has been imprisoned in russia for nearly two yearsbarbara starr has called on the biden administration to introduce new protections for journaliststhe children were ages 1 to 10, and the youngest has serious injuries, according to the south carolina highway patrol.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everone hundred-fifty people were evacuated following the deadly accident in the city of shiyan in hubei province, it said, of which 37 are critically injured.
the explosion caused a food market building to collapse at 6:30 a. m. , local media reported.
footage from cctv shows wreckage and shattered glass covering the first floor of the collapsed building, where people were having breakfast and buying groceries when explosion happened.
people can be seen walking in a rubble-strewn street between damaged buildings.
hospitals in shiyan are asking residents to donate blood, as the injured are still under emergency treatment, cctv said.
the wily kentucky senator used similar tactics during the obama administrationthe suspect drove into a crowd gathered in the minneapolis neighborhood where a black man was shot to death by sheriff's deputies this month.
the second nationwide home-based learning (hbl) exercise for students will come to an end in stages, the ministry of education (moe) announced yesterday.
primary 4 to 6 pupils, secondary 3 to 5 and all junior college and millennia institute students will be the first to return to school on june 28.  secondary 1 and 2 students will return to school from july 1 and the rest will go back from july 6. those sitting psle and n-, o- and a-level examinations this year have had to live with the coronavirus for more than a year now and been forced to make unprecedented adjustments while preparing for the milestone tests.
dr jason tan, associate professor in the policy, curriculum and leadership academic group at the national institute of education, said negotiating two hbl sessions and adjusting to various safety measures both in and out of school would have been challenging.
"these exams play an important role in determining the next stages of the students' lives and having them amid the disruptions caused by the virus is certainly not ideal," he told the new paper yesterday.
"this period is already a stressful one for them, knowing the importance of these exams.
faced with social isolation like being apart from their classmates and not having co-curricular activities is bound to affect their social and emotional well-being, which also plays a part in how they do academically.
"on may 16, moe announced that all students would move to hbl from may 19, the second such exercise since the virus appeared here early last year.
the current mid-year holidays started on may 29 and end on june 27. last year's hbl was from april 8 to may 5, during the circuit breaker, when singapore went into a lockdown from april 7 to june 1. ms vivien le, founder of le xue education group, a chinese education centre, believes many of the students taking crucial exams this year would have found it tough.
the former moe teacher said: "this year's cohort had to go through two rounds of disruptions.
"students who find it more challenging learning online may find it difficult since a portion of their syllabus from these two years were taught online, especially when it comes to the foundation topics taught last year.
"but she noted that some learning styles may be suited to online learning.
miss ren yun ting, 18, a second-year student at tampines meridian junior college, said she was productive during the recent hbl exercise as she continued preparing for her upcoming a-level exams.
she said: "the school uploaded a lot of information and resources such as mock exam papers for us to do, and i had the flexibility to plan my time on how i wanted to revise.
"while she missed meeting her friends and having fun in school, the time she saved on travelling and attending co-curricular activity sessions helped with revision work.
"i may not be able to say i am 100 per cent confident to take the exams now, but i am definitely making great use of my holidays to consolidate my learning, and i am well prepared for my upcoming exams, which is an important milestone before the a levels," she added.
some have struggled more.
madam lunny liu, 50, a tutor, said her 11-year-old daughter, who will sit the primary school leaving examination later this year, found the hbl less effective.
"she never had very good self-discipline and home-based learning made it worse.
also, it affected her understanding of some lessons taught in class because she does better with physical interaction.
"students taking the psle and n-, o- and a-level exams face huge pressure, and ms le said the pandemic could exacerbate the strain.
a mother who wanted to be known only as mrs lim said despite the challenges that her 12-year-old daughter has had to face, they have learnt to adapt as the psle draws closer.
the 41-year-old sales manager said: "last year, my daughter was complaining about the safe management measures in school such as having to wear masks the whole day.
"she does not complain now and is looking forward to returning to school to prepare for her exams.
"while it has been disruptive, especially when tuition classes were shifted online, this pandemic has taught us to go with the flow and expect these constant changes.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
newquay, england: us president joe biden on sunday (jun 13) said the united states had restored its presence on the world stage as he used his first overseas trip since taking office to connect with a new generation of leaders from some of the world's most powerful countries and more closely unite allies on addressing the coronavirus pandemic and china's trade and labour practices.
as he wrapped three days of what he called "an extraordinarily collaborative and productive meeting" at the group of seven summit of wealthy democracies, biden said there was "genuine enthusiasm" for his engagement.
"america's back in the business of leading the world alongside nations who share our most deeply held values," biden said at a news conference before leaving cornwall to visit queen elizabeth ii at windsor castle.
"i think we've made progress in re-establishing american credibility among our closest friends.
"the president, who is on an eight-day, three country trip, left his mark on the g7 by announcing a commitment to share500 million coronavirus vaccine doseswith the world and pressing allies to do the same.
the leaders on sunday confirmed their intent todonate more than 1 billion dosesto low-income countries in the next year.
"this is going to be a constant project for a long time," biden said of the global vaccination campaign, adding that he hoped the world could stamp out the pandemic in 2022 or 2023.
"it's not just the right thing to do" from a moral standpoint, biden said, but also the correct thing to do "in terms of our own health".
he also said the us might be able to donate an additional 1 billion vaccine doses to the world in the coming years.
biden also fought for the leaders' joint statement to include specific language criticising china's use of forced labour and other human rights abuses as he worked to cast the rivalry with beijing as the defining competition for the 21st century.
the president declined to discuss the private negotiations over the provision, but said he was "satisfied" with the tough rhetoric, though difference remained among the allies about how forcefully to call out beijing.
the leaders also embraced biden's call for a 15 per cent global minimum corporate tax rate.
the other g7 allies did their part in creating the impression that biden was part of "the club" and sought to help reinforce biden's "america is back" mantra, including by embracing the his campaign slogan to "build back better" from the pandemic.
most european allies had been disenchanted with president donald trump's grumbling of "global freeloaders" and espousing an "america first" policy, so biden had the challenge of convincing a sceptical audience that the last us administration was not a harbinger of a more insular country.
"we're totally on the same page," british prime minister boris johnson said of biden.
implicitly criticising his predecessor, who had said other countries should pay for the presence of america's military presence abroad, biden said he does not view nato as a "protection racket".
biden also reported that global leaders were gratified that the us president accepted the science of climate change.
"one of the things some of my colleagues said to me when i was there was, 'well, the united states' leadership recognises there is global warming," biden said.
the president was ending his day brussels for meetings with nato and european union leaders on monday and tuesday before his summit with russian president vladimir putin on wednesday in geneva.
us officials said that one-on-one meeting would test whether the two men could develop a constructive relationship even as biden was poised to rebuke putin for a range of rights abuses and election interference.
pressed at the news conference on why putin has not changed his behavior after waves of us sanctions, biden replied with a laugh.
"he's vladimir putin.
"the summit marked some of biden's first face-to-face meetings with global leaders since taking office in january amid the covid-19 pandemic, including france's emmanuel macron, with whom he was meeting for the first time.
the 43-year-old macron, who came into office in may 2017, months after biden's two terms as the us vice president ended, appeared to have quick chemistry with the 78-year-old american.
the two draped their arms around each other and chatted animatedly when they walked together after the leaders' photo at the beginning of friday's summit.
in remarks to reporters, macron did not utter trump's name but offered an unambiguous shot at the former president.
macron noted his his relief that with biden, he was now working with an american president "willing to cooperate.
""what you demonstrate is leadership is partnership," macron said of biden.
during trump's term, macron tried to find common ground but often bristled at trump's nativist rhetoric.
macron, who has worked to portray france as a more prominent power in recent years, also used the rise of trumpism to make the case for greater global european leadership.
he complained in november 2019 that a lack of us leadership was causing the "brain death" of nato, insisting in an interview with the economist that the european union must step up and start acting as a strategic world power.
biden, in his remarks, seemed to acknowledge macron's concerns, noting that western europe was providing "backbone and the support for nato".
biden administration officials said biden hoped to leave the summit on sunday with a communique that included language calling out china over forced labour of muslims and ethnic minorities in western china.
but as talks continued on saturday, leaders said that differences remained.
the leaders broadly agreed that greater coordination on china was necessary, according to an administration official who observed some of the talks and briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.
the official said it became evident that there was a "spectrum of how far different countries are willing to go".
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed the biden administration's position, while germany, italy and european show hesitancy, according to the official.
white house officials say biden wants the g7 nations to speak with one voice on the china's human rights abuse.
"we need to be able to deal with china in all of those areas coming from a position of strength and coming from a united position. "
us secretary of state anthony blinken told cbs news' face the nation on sunday.
"i think what the president was able to do in these last couple of days was bring countries closer together in dealing with some of the challenges posed by china.
"during the summit, biden also met with italian prime minister mario draghi, japanese prime minister yoshihide suga and president cyril ramaphosa of south africa.
at the news conference, biden briefly confused syria and libya when he described the importance of providing humanitarian aid to countries torn apart by civil war.
it was among a handful of verbal stumbles the president made.
biden then left on his way to windsor castle for a private audience with the queen becoming the 13th president to have met with the 95-year-old monarch.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: around 10 customers were gathered outside the rich & good cake shop outlet at jewel changi airport a few minutes before it opened for business on monday (jun 14).
it had been more than a month since the shop was shuttered, when jewel and the passenger terminals at changi airport were closed to the public in may to control a growing cluster of covid-19 cases.
jewel was initially slated to reopen on may 27, but the closure wasextendedby the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) as an "added precaution".
"(the crowd) is actually slightly more than what we expected, we were expecting it to be totally empty because dine-in is still not allowed," said ms jerelyn foo, the company's media and operations manager.
"but it's definitely less compared to what we had before the closure," she added.
at burger chain shake shack, which typically sees long queues during peak hours, food delivery riders as well as customers were spotted waiting in line for their food inside the restaurant.
in contrast, luxury watch retailer sincere watch's outlet at jewel was largely empty, when cna visited the mall between 11.
30am to 3pm.
"i'm not surprised because it's just the first day of reopening and consumers just got to know about this so it will take time for them to gain confidence to come back to the mall and spend again," said mr kenneth tan, the company's senior operations manager.
meanwhile, a small handful of moviegoers trickled in and out of shaw theatres jewel.
"it's a typical monday morning, so obviously it's quite quiet," said mr mark shaw, director of shaw organisation.
"we're just really happy to be open and we expect, hopefully, with some decent marketing from jewel and our team, as well as some of the bigger hollywood blockbusters coming online in the next couple of weeks, that business will pick up," he added.
jewel extends rental support for tenantson monday, jewel announced that it would extend full rental waiver by an additional week until jun 20.  previously, it was only for the period of the mall's closure.
between jun 21 and jun 27, jewel tenants will also receive rental "assistance", according to the mall.
it did not specify how much assistance would be provided.
the additional support was welcomed by tenants cna spoke to, who said that it would take some time before shoppers returned.
"i expect that it will take a month or two to have the business back on track .
.
.
but we're quite positive about the sales going back to what we used to have, especially when the dine-in resumes," said ms cami soh, director of operations at shake shack singapore.
enhanced safety measuresas of jun 13, 108 cases have been linked to changi airport, which remains the country's largest active cluster.
thelast three reported caseswere on may 23, which includes a seven-year-old singaporean boy who is a student at st stephen's school.
last month, a 95-year-old woman linked to the clusterdied from complicationsdue to the coronavirus.
to minimise the risk of transmission, jewel is now part of asegregated zoning systemimplemented by changi airport, which segregates 14,000 airport workers into three distinct zones based on risk level.
jewel changi airport is under zone 3 the lowest risk group.
this means that airport workers from zone 1, which has the highest risk of exposure, will not be allowed to enter jewel during their shifts.
during the closure period, thorough cleaning and disinfection works were carried out.
more than 2,500 workers at jewel took the mandatory covid-19 test and none tested positive, according to jewel.
it added that close to 90 per cent of eligible jewel staff have taken at least one dose of the vaccine so far.
attracting visitorsto draw shoppers back, jewel is offering free parking until jul 11.  it is also working on new programmes and promotions, which will be shared at a later date.
"we are cognisant that it will take time to ramp up footfall at jewel, as singapore cautiously moves into phase 3 (heightened alert) with a gradual easing of restrictions," ms hung.
"with enhanced precautionary measures in place and staff well-trained to ensure that all measures are adhered to, we hope to welcome our guests back again to a sparkling jewel experience soon.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore (the business times) the ong family controlling the lian beng civil engineering and construction group on monday (june 14) announced a mandatory conditional cash offer at 50 cents per share, following a married deal.
the family had, through its investment holding company ong sek chong & sons, acquired nearly 5.
9 million shares, or about 1.
2 per cent of the total number of issued and paid-up ordinary shares issued by lian beng group.
prior to the market acquisition, ong sek chong & sons and its concert parties held about 43.
6 per cent of voting rights in lian beng.
with its recent acquisition of more than 1 per cent of shares in lian beng, it was required to extend a mandatory offer.
the offer price represents a premium on the last traded price of 47 cents last friday, the last trading day, the announcement said.
on monday morning, shares of lian beng were trading at 48.
5 cents, up 3.
2 per cent or 1.
5 cents, before the group called for a trading halt pending the release of the announcement.
ong sek chong & sons has an issued and paid-up share capital of $100,000 comprising 100,000 ordinary shares, of which 40 per cent are held by mr ong pang aik, chairman and managing director of lian beng; 36 per cent by executive director ong lay huan ; 12 per cent by ms ong lay koon, another executive director at lian beng; and the remaining 12 per cent by ms ong lee yap.
the former three shareholders, along with mr ong phang hui and mr ong phang hoo, sit on ong sek chong & sons' board of directors.
the trading volume of lian beng's shares has been generally low, the announcement said, with an average daily trading volume of 241,529 shares, or 0.
05 per cent of total issued shares, in the one-month period up to and including the last full trading day prior to the announcement.
the ongs intend to maintain lian beng's listing status and do not intend to exercise any rights of compulsory acquisition.
ong sek chong & sons has confirmed with the securities industry council of singapore that it will not be required to make an offer for slb development, of which lian beng owns some 708.
1 million, or about 77.
6 per cent, of issued and paid-up ordinary shares.
it will not be making an offer for slb development in connection with the offer, which, if it becomes unconditional, will result in ong sek chong & sons acquiring statutory control and indirectly acquiring effective control of slb development.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the exponential spread of the delta variant, and the uncertainties surrounding it, mean pausing the roadmap is justifiedlast modified on mon 14 jun 2021 19.
35 edtsince february, when boris johnson unveiled a four-step roadmap to ending all covid restrictions in england, progress has been steady and at times relatively serene compared with the periods of abject confusion and chaos that went before.
the successful rollout of the vaccination programme allowed targets to be met, including the substantial "step three" easing of restrictions on 17 may.
but as boris johnson recognised in his press conference today, the spread of the new delta variant – which now accounts for 96% of covid cases in the united kingdom – has upended calculations.
latest data suggests it is 40-80% more transmissible than the alpha variant, which originated in kent.
the variant partly evades vaccines and appears to increase the risk of hospitalisation.
hospital admission rates are increasing by 50% a week and 61% in the north-west.
a significant third wave is thus under way and the government's scientific advisers do not know the extent to which current rates of vaccination and acquired immunity will keep it in check.
a summer surge in hospitalisations could overwhelm an already overstretched nhs.
the prime minister is therefore right to opt for caution by delaying the lifting of all covid restrictions until 19 july, reviewing the data in two weeks' time.
the roadmap has encountered a significant new hazard and, as mr johnson put it: "now is the time to ease off the accelerator. "
given that significant unlocking has already taken place, it must be hoped this pause is enough to put the brakes on the new wave.
it will allow vital progress to be made in administering millions of second vaccine doses, which greatly increase protection against the delta variant.
it will also allow time to focus on reaching the 2 million or so over-50s who have still not been fully vaccinated, and to speed up second doses for the under-40s.
this will save lives.
by late july, schools will be breaking up for the summer, further reducing transmission risk.
even so, it seems likely that there will be another fraught review of data next month, in order to assess whether the link between infection and hospitalisation has been sufficiently broken to fully unlock.
the delay is, of course, another bitter blow for the hospitality industry and the arts.
theatres, restaurants, pubs, concert venues and nightclubs, after haemorrhaging cash for more than a year, have spent money that they haven't got preparing for a full reopening next week.
many businesses are teetering on the edge of the abyss and some will now go under.
the level of the government's support should reflect the extent of the restrictions it continues to impose.
instead, the treasury is sticking to its plan to scale down the furlough scheme and business rate relief, ramping the financial pressure up still further.
this is shortsighted and unfair.
far more needs to be done to address the dire predicament of much-loved institutions, many of them independently owned and part of the fabric of their communities.
there was at least some limited good news for those who planned summer nuptials on the presumption that all restrictions would be lifted.
mr johnson announced the current cap on 30 guests will still be lifted for weddings and for funerals, though other restrictions and social distancing will remain in place.
the delta variant has cast a shadow over the summer.
but given the greater risks it has unleashed, and its virulence, mr johnson was right to heed the scientific advice and press the pause button for the time being.
as sir patrick vallance suggested today, the vaccination programme is now in a race with a faster-spreading variant.
the four-week delay is necessary to help it win that crucial contest.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a singaporean man who had worked for china's intelligence services since 2016 has been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for being a threat to singapore.
dickson yeo, 40, had acted as a paid agent of a foreign state, said the internal security department (isd) on tuesday (june 15).
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year (2020), after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains," said the department.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said that yeo was tasked to source information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
he had approached various individuals in singapore to try and obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports.
yeo had set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities, as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
"he had also tried, but failed, to secure employment in the singapore government sector to further his information-gathering activities.
yeo had carried out these activities over a period from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019," said isd.
the department said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's continued detention is necessary to allow isd to find out the full extent of his activities.
during a trip to beijing in 2015, yeo was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy at the national university of singapore at that time.
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year, after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
us court documents show he admitted to being offered money in exchange for political reports and information, initially on south-east asia, before focusing on the us.
he also made numerous trips to meet the chinese agents he was in contact with, trawled social networking sites to find targets and was also directed to set up a fake consulting firm, resolute consulting the same name as a renowned us firm.
he registered the company in singapore in early 2018 and got more than 400 resumes, mostly american military and government staff with security clearances.
he then got a post as a visiting scholar at george washington university in washington and travelled to the us to continue his efforts.
living in the washington area from january 2019 to july 2019, yeo exploited networking opportunities in the area to spot and assess individuals from whom he could extract information.
he was questioned by immigration officers at the john f.  kennedy airport in new york, when he returned to the us in november 2019. spooked, he booked a flight to return the next day, when he was approached by federal bureau of investigation agents.
he agreed to be interviewed and was taken into custody.
news of yeo's arrest and guilty plea was announced last july and he was sentenced last october.
he maintained before the court that he was supportive of the chinese cause and claimed that he did not betray singapore.
when announcing his arrest upon returning to singapore, isd said yeo had revealed to us investigators that his previous intelligence taskings targeted other states apart from the us.
"the singapore government takes a very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government and engages in activities at the behest of the foreign power that is inimical to our national security and interests, including bilateral relations," said the isd on tuesday.
case timeline
2015
dickson yeo, who is enrolled as a phd student at the lee kuan yew school of public policy, travels to beijing to give a presentation on south-east asia politics.
there, he is recruited by chinese intelligence operatives.
2015
yeo uses a professional networking website to contact and recruit a civilian working with the us air force on the f-35 fighter jet programme.
the civilian writes a report for yeo and gives him information on the geopolitical implications of japan purchasing f-35 aircraft from the us.
2018 
yeo creates a fake consulting company to harvest resumes from us military and government employees with access to sensitive information.
between 2018 and  2019: 
yeo recruits a us state department employee and pays him to write a report about an unnamed member of the us cabinet.
january to july 2019 
he moves to washington dc to network with people and tries to recruit them.
his linkedin profile lists him as a doctoral fellow at the george washington university during this time.
november 2019
yeo returns to the us to ask a us army officer working at the pentagon to provide classified information.
he is stopped and arrested after landing at the airport.
july 24, 2020 
yeo pleads guilty to one charge of acting within the u s as an illegal agent of a foreign power.
oct 9, 2020
yeo's sentencing hearing is scheduled.
he receives a 14-month jail sentence, with the 11 months he had spent in jail  credited toward his sentencedec 30, 2020
yeo is deported to singapore from the united states and arrested by the isd.
jan 29, 2020
an order of detention under the isa is issued against yeo for acting as a paid agent of a foreign state.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
michael and peter taylor tell tokyo court of their part in spiriting away executive in musical instrument caselast modified on mon 14 jun 2021 17.
40 edttwo americans charged with helping former nissan chair carlos ghosn flee japan while he was facing accusations of financial misconduct have told a court that they took part in a scheme for him to escape the country.
statements by michael taylor and his son, peter, on the opening day of their trial in tokyo suggested the pair don't plan to fight charges of assisting a criminal, which carry a possible penalty of up to three years in prison.
keiji isaji, one of the attorneys for the taylors, told the associated press after the court session that he wants the trial to "proceed efficiently".
he said ending the trial quickly is "in the best interests of his clients".
he declined to confirm his team was hoping for a suspended sentence if they are convicted, meaning no time would be served.
he stressed the decision was up to the judge.
the taylors appeared calm as they were led into the courtroom in handcuffs, with ropes tied around their waists.
they said little except to answer the judge's questions when asked about simultaneous interpreting relayed through headphones.
prosecutors read out a statement accusing michael taylor, a former green beret, and peter taylor of arranging to hide ghosn in a musical equipment case.
it was loaded on to a private jet that flew him from the western city of osaka to lebanon via turkey in december 2019. ryozo kitajima, one of the prosecutors, said peter taylor met ghosn at a hotel several times in 2019 and introduced ghosn to his father.
he said peter taylor received $562,500 in two transfers to pay for chartering the jet and other expenses.
peter taylor arranged for ghosn to change his clothing at a tokyo hotel.
his father and another man, george-antoine zayek, later accompanied ghosn to the osaka airport, kitajima said.
zayek has not been arrested.
the prosecutors said bitcoins worth $500,000 were transferred from ghosn's son anthony's account to peter taylor in 2020, purportedly to cover the taylors' defence costs.
prosecutors said that during their detention the taylors had expressed remorse and that the pair had been misled to believe helping someone to jump bail was not illegal in japan.
they said ghosn's wife, carole, told them ghosn was being tortured.
the prosecutors quoted the taylors as saying they were not tortured and were treated in a way that was "fair and professional".
the trial's next session is set for 29 june, when prosecutors will continue their questioning.
the taylors were arrested in massachusetts last year and extradited to japan in march.
ghosn has french, lebanese and brazilian citizenship and lebanon has no extradition treaty with japan.
the authorities say ghosn paid the taylors at least $1.
3m (£920,000).
ghosn led nissan motor co for two decades before his arrest in 2018.  he was charged with falsifying securities reports in under-reporting his compensation and of breach of trust in using nissan money for personal gain.
he says he is innocent and says he fled japan because he did not expect to get a fair trial.
more than 99% of criminal cases in japan result in convictions.
no japanese executives have been charged in the scandal at nissan, the yokohama-based manufacturer of the leaf electric car, march subcompact and infiniti luxury models.
extraditions between japan and the us are relatively rare, even for serious crimes.
the possible penalty of three years in prison is the minimum required for an extradition.
before his arrest, ghosn was an motor industry star, having orchestrated nissan's rebound from the brink of bankruptcy after he was sent to japan by its french alliance partner renault in 1999. ghosn's pay was halved, by about 1 billion yen ($10 million), in 2010 when japan began requiring disclosure of high executive pay.
the concern was that his relatively high compensation might be viewed unfavourably since japanese top executives tend to draw lower pay packages than their peers in other countries.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore users of power-assisted bicycles (pabs) and e-scooters will have to pass a mandatory online theory test by the end of this year, in order to continue using them in public spaces.
pab users will have 40 minutes to tackle 40 multiple-choice questions.
e-scooter riders will have to answer 30 multiple-choice questions in 30 minutes.
the passing score for both tests which will improve awareness of active mobility rules, code of conduct and safe riding practices is 80 per cent.
the land transport authority (lta), which announced details of the test on monday (june 14), said those who pass will receive a digital certificate with no expiry date.
it added that it is giving riders time to prepare for the test which will be rolled out on july 1 before enforcement kicks in on jan 1.
"from jan 1, 2022, riders will be required to show their digital certificate when requested by enforcement officers," said lta.
"we encourage riders to register and obtain the test certificates as soon as possible, once the test is made available on june 30.
"those caught riding without the certificate can be fined up to $2,000 and/or jailed for six months for the first offence.
repeat offenders can be fined up to $5,000 and/or jailed for 12 months.
the active mobility advisory panel (amap) first proposed a mandatory test for e-scooter and pab users in september 2019, among other recommendations.
these came after a spate of accidents involving mobility devices and the death of a cyclist after a collision with a speeding e-scooter rider whose device did not meet regulations.
the government accepted the recommendations and said it would complement other efforts to boost path and road safety.
riders can register for the test from june 30 with the singapore polytechnic's professional and adult continuing education academy.
those who do so between june 30 and sept 30 will pay a discounted rate of $5 per test, with a free resit should they fail on their first try.
those who register after sept 30 will pay $10 per test attempt.
lta said the test will be available in english, chinese, malay and tamil.
riders can prepare through e-handbooks that it has uploaded online.
those who want to take the test in person should contact lta at this website and the request will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
lta said riders will need to register an account on the theory test portal using their singpass at least one day before the test.
those taking the test have to be at least 16, the minimum age for riding pabs and e-scooters.
adults supervising e-scooter riders below 16 will also be required to pass the e-scooter theory test.
mr denis koh, chairman of personal mobility device enthusiast group bwss, said the six-month timeline to take the test is an achievable one for riders.
mr koh, a former amap member, said he had tried a trial version of the test without referring to the handbooks provided by lta.
for the e-scooter test, he was able to meet the 80 per cent passing mark, but he fell short for the pab test.
he said there is no need for riders to panic about the tests, and encouraged them to prepare by reading lta's handbooks and signing up for available training programmes.
"at the end of the day, it's about making sure candidates know the rules and good practices well enough to be safe on paths and roads," he added.
"hopefully, the test will ensure that people have the minimum required knowledge to ride safely.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore chinese daily lianhe zaobao has responded to an open letter signed by local academics and scholars who took issue with its recent editorial on race relations, saying it has consistently upheld racial equality and advocated for mutual understanding among all ethnic groups in singapore.
as the anchor chinese newspaper, it has publicly and unequivocally condemned several recent local incidents of racial discrimination, and jointly defended racial harmony through its editorials, zaobao said on monday (june 14).
"singapore is a multiracial nation.
we truly believe in the ideals expressed in the national pledge and cherish the hard-won racial harmony, but that does not mean that we believe that there are no tensions in racial relationships," it said.
"lianhe zaobao has always taken a consistent stance on upholding equality among all races and advocating that there should be mutual understanding among ethnic groups.
this is evident from our editorials, news reports and feature articles.
in the midst of the pandemic, we have seen more racial tensions simmering, which is why we have published a total of seven editorials related to this issue in the past year and a half.
"the open letter, which was signed by over 200 people, was concerned about the way it felt zaobao had characterised the problem of racism here in the wake of recent racial incidents in its june 9 editorial titled 'expanding public space to promote racial harmony'.
the letter's signatories include phd students, researchers and academics, among them professors linda lim, lee soo ann, vineeta sinha and pang eng fong.
the letter said the editorial "ignores the dynamics of structural racism and the longer history of racial stereotyping in singapore", and blamed the recent incidents on the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, the sensationalism of social media, and the import of "foreign ideas" such as critical race theory the idea that racism is not just about personal prejudice but is also embedded and perpetuated by systems and policies.
"it is true that feelings of uncertainty heighten inter-group tensions, and that conversations on social media can be polarising.
however, the editorial uses these arguments to suggest that recent racist incidents are an anomaly in an otherwise racially harmonious society, and that social media exaggerates what are otherwise exceptional acts by unusually racist individuals," said the letter.
it said the pandemic and social media have "simply revealed long-standing fissures and the everyday discrimination experienced by racial minorities in singapore".
the letter also said zaobao had misrepresented critical race theory as "promoting hatred of white people" in the united states, and by extension, of chinese people here.
it added that this argument is typically made by far-right commentators in the us who do not engage in the actual writings and concepts of critical race theory.
in response, zaobao hoped readers would see the june 9 editorial in its entirety, saying the piece analyses the problem from three different aspects, and tries to explain that the pandemic, the role of social media, and popular ideological trends from abroad have all exacerbated racial tensions.
critical race theory (crt) was cited as an example of the influence of foreign ideas, zaobao said, adding some scholars had used the concept, which originated in the us in the 1970s, to analyse race issues here, and criticise it for downplaying the "systemic and structural racism" in singapore.
it also noted the different interpretations of the concept in academic circles, saying: "one should not easily dismiss the critique of crt by serious scholars as a 'far-right american perspective'.
""we strongly believe that when discussing the issue of race in singapore, we should not be applying foreign ideas and concepts without adapting them to local conditions," zaobao added.
it said racial discrimination exists in every society, with some things in common and others specific to each.
"theories and concepts based on foreign situations may not always be applicable to singapore.
sometimes, instead of deepening our understanding of the issue and promoting consensus, they may complicate it.
but we are also aware and accept that there are those who do not agree with such views and positions.
"it added: "racial harmony is a common goal for all singaporeans.
we believe the scholars who signed the letter share the same philosophy and welcome rational and open discussion on the issue.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces (saf).
phoon chiu yoke, who faces seven charges of not wearing her mask in various places and breaching her stay-home notice, again asked district judge (dj) janet wang for her charges to be dropped.
the 53-year-old singaporean was filmed in a confrontation with a safe-distancing ambassador (sda) at marina bay sands last month.
the incident on 15 may was caught in a viral video showing phoon demanding to see the sda's badge.
phoon also removed her mask after leaving court on 24 may, when she was photographed and filmed by the media.
at her tuesday hearing, the prosecution told the court that phoon may face additional charges, including those from the immigration and checkpoints authority.
phoon, who represented herself, stated that she was an ex-naval officer who had a "number of incidents" when she was a "plaintiff" or "eyewitness" to many cases, and as such, it was "not possible" for her to have a fair hearing.
"i am not privy to discuss all these cases in court here without causing embarrassment or being prejudicial to the saf and to the government of singapore (so i) am applying for all these charges to be dropped," she said.
when probed on her cases with the saf, phoon repeated her allegations, adding, "due to all these cases in the past, i should be granted immunity as a citizen. "
phoon described the cases as "grave" and "very serious in nature".
dj wang then responded that her case with the saf would not be relevant to her present charges, and that the court would not be cognisant of those charges.
in reply, phoon said, "i beg to differ.
"the judge then adjourned the case to 6 july, pending her additional charges and for phoon to seek legal advice.
the maximum penalty for breaching covid-19 measures is six months' jail and a fine of $10,000.
repeat offenders can be jailed for up to one year and fined up to $20,000.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:woman, without mask in viral mbs video, asks judge to drop chargeswoman charged for not wearing mask at mbs, outside court and elsewherewoman in viral video at mbs seen outside court without maskwoman in viral video at mbs claims trial to not wearing mask charge in separate incidenta nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
canberra mrt opened in november 2019, and in the immediate quarter after (q1 2020), property prices in district 27 jumped by over 6% qoq.
read about what canberra has to offer, as well as bto and condo projects in the area.
having a pet can be an extremely fulfilling experience.
you get companionship and with that, intriguing anecdotes tend to follow.
however, not many stories would be able to match up with what zul, a local tiktoker, posted last wednesday (june 9).
won't forget this 🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️ ##russianbluecatit's not every day you come across a flooded home caused by your pet cats' mischievous actions.
but for zul, it wasn't the first time either.
"i'm speechless guys, it's the second time.
both the same, when i'm sleeping with no one else home," zul said.
zul doesn't only have one or two cats, he's got a clowder of russian blue.
somehow, his cat (or cats) figured out how the kitchen tap worked and waited for the perfect time to strike — when the human wasn't awake.
the worst part for zul was that he was just about to head to work but had to take urgent leave to clear up the mess instead.
that didn't seem to bother his cats one tiny bit.
many were in a state of pure serendipity, splashing about in the water with not a care for the world.
"don't play!
look, they're playing in the water.
the one that's gotta clean this mess is me, luckily my parents aren't home," zul quipped.
towards the end of the video, some cats were just chilling on the furniture, seemingly avoiding the water now that they've had their fair share of fun.
zul was still trying to come to terms with what his cats had put him through.
"it's like a swimming pool, y'all go and swim!," zul said in annoyance as he threw a tennis ball towards his cats.
this time no more water 🤣 ##russianbluethe following day, zul posted another video of his cats running amok at home.
this time, it wasn't to do with kitchen taps but kitchen towels instead.
bits of kitchen towels were scattered everywhere, from the space surrounding a room door to the entire kitchen area and kitchen toilet.
"i came out of the room and was shocked.
look at what they're doing.
they're playing with tissue!
they're playing with tissue!"
zul asserted in the same exasperated tone from the previous post.
a netizen tried to get zul to look on the brighter side by stating that at least it's an easier clean-up on zul's part, as compared to when his cats were playing with water.
another netizen felt like the cats were just too cute and adorable.
zul admitted that he too saw the funny side and found it difficult to get mad at them.
when you can say that, even after two flooding incidents and bits of kitchen towels littered everywhere, you know that the love for the cats is unconditional.
big ups to you, zul!also read: woman in sengkang finally finds out who has been stealing her flip-flopsamierul@asiaone.
com
singapore: the people's association (pa) has cancelled a meeting with a couple whose wedding photo was used as a cut-out standee without their permission, saying that there was "no point" in proceeding with it after comments she made on social media.
the meeting with ms sarah bagharib and her husband razif abdullah was set up to offer them an in-person apology over the incident, said the pa in a facebook post on monday (jun 14).
a photo from their wedding in 2017 was recently used as part of hari raya decorations at a tiong bahru estate in radin mas constituency.
"we also wished to clarify our position, elaborate on the steps we have taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how we might improve at the meeting," said the pa in its statement on facebook.
however, the pa said that ms sarah had made a public call in her social media posts to "please share your messages/suggestions to pa here and we'll share them".
"we find this odd.
we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," the pa said.
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"allegations of racismthe pa had publicly apologised to the couple on may 29 and removed the standee.
it also said: "we will take steps to guide and help our staff and, as far as possible, external vendors as well, to be more culturally-attuned and sensitive.
"ms sarah posted a response to pa's apology on jun 1, saying that there are "glaring gaps that indicate a very superficial understanding of the gravity of the issue".
this was not just about copyright infringement, but there was a "larger issue affecting the wider malay/muslim community", she said.
"it is unfortunate that a government body that was established to build and bridge communities in achieving one people, one singapore is required to still 'guide and help (its) staff .
.
.
to be more culturally-attuned and sensitive' 61 years after inception," she wrote in the post.
ms sarah also referenced the incident in a few instagram stories, which the pa responded to in its statement on monday.
referring to an instagram story re-posted by ms sarah on jun 11, the pa said ms sarah had shared claims by another user that the incident perpetuates "racist culture".
the pa also said that ms sarah characterised the standee incident as "racist" by lumping it with "other racist attacks and incidents" in one of her posts, and that she "insinuated" in an interview with assistant professor walid jumblatt abdullah that the pa's staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
the assistant professor is from nanyang technological university's school of social sciences, with research areas that include religion and politics.
during the interview on jun 7, ms sarah noted that the hari raya light-up event featuring the standee was attended by mp melvin yong.
she wondered if mr yong saw the standee and what he thought about it, saying: "if he did and he didn't say anything about it, then something is definitely wrong.
""there was a comment there as well about internalised racism," she added.
"we've been so conditioned to think that this is a certain way .
.
.
there's nothing wrong with this because you know people that are colourblind, i guess, or blind to racism at play or there's nothing wrong because it doesn't impact them.
"pa rejects accusationson monday, the pa said it rejects those accusations.
"while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," it added.
cna has contacted ms sarah for her reaction to the pa's comments.
the pa also said that its grassroots organisations such as the malay activity executive committees council (mesra) and the indian activity executive committees council (narpani pearavai) play a key role in representing the interests of the malay and indian communities.
"we regularly reach out to numerous community partners among all our races and religions to ensure that their concerns are actively considered when designing our programmes," it added.
what happened with the standee at radin mas was an "isolated incident", said the pa, adding that it showed nonetheless that the organisation "can fall short".
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters.
"we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures.
singaporeans becoming 'one people' is a work in progress – and so is the pa. "it further refuted ms sarah's point that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame".
"this is untrue," said the pa on monday.
"the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on may 28 and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on may 29.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: singaporean dickson yeo was detained under the internal security act (isa) on jan 29 for acting as a paid agent for a "foreign state", the internal security department (isd) said on tuesday (jun 15).
while isd did not name the foreign state, yeo, 40, was last year sentenced to 14 months' prison in the us for spying for china against the us.
isdarrested yeo after he was deported to singaporeon dec 30 last year after he served his sentence.
it interviewed him to establish if he had engaged in activities prejudicial to singapore's security.
the department said on tuesday that yeo carried out intelligence activities against singapore from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019.  he was tasked to source for information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
"towards this end, he had approached various individuals in singapore in an attempt to obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports," isd said.
yeo also set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
he also tried, but failed, to get a job in the singapore government.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's "continued detention is necessary to facilitate probes into the full extent of his activities".
yeo was jailed in the us on oct 9 last year after admitting to operating illegally as a foreign agent, which can bring up to 10 years in prison.
he was given a relatively light sentence and credited for 11 months already spent in prison because of his cooperation with us authorities and the threat of contracting covid-19 in jail, a us federal judge said then.
in his plea, yeo admitted to working between 2015 and 2019 for chinese intelligence, spotting and assessing americans with access to "valuable non-public information".
they included a civilian working on the us air force's f-35b stealth fighter project, a pentagon army officer with afghanistan experience, and a state department official, all of whom were paid as much as us$2,000 to write reports for yeo.
yeo told these people that the reports were for clients in asia, without revealing that they were in fact for the chinese government.
yeo was recruited by chinese intelligence operatives while studying for a phd at the national university of singapore's lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) in 2015.  he went on to work for the chinese after he visited beijing to give a presentation on politics.
former top singapore diplomat bilahari kausikan said that yeo's phd supervisor at lkyspp was huang jing.
the professor was identified in 2017 as an "agent of influence for a foreign country" by singapore's ministry of home affairs (mha).
without naming the country, mha said huang "knowingly interacted with intelligence organisations and agents of the foreign country, and cooperated with them to influence the singapore government's foreign policy and public opinion in singapore".
huang gave what he claimed was "privileged information" about the foreign country to prominent and influential singaporeans, including a senior member of lkyspp, with the aim of influencing their opinions in favour of that country, mha said.
huang was permanently banned from singapore and had his permanent residency status revoked, mha said.
huang left singapore in 2017. yeo also told us investigators that his previous intelligence work targeted other asian countries before focusing on the us.
mha said on jul 26 last year that its investigations into yeo's activities did not reveal any direct threat to singapore's security.
on tuesday, isd said the singapore government takes a "very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government".
this includes those who engage in activities at the behest of the foreign power that may harm singapore's national security and interests, including bilateral relations, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore primary 1 to 3 pupils will continue with a week of home-based learning (hbl) from june 28 when term 3 begins, said the ministry of education (moe) on monday (june 14).
they will return to school on tuesday, july 6, as monday is a school holiday.
secondary 1 and 2 students will be on hbl for three days till june 30, and return to school on thursday, july 1. this is part of a move to progressively allow students back to school after the june holidays to keep students and staff safe from covid-19.
students in primary 4 to 6, secondary 3 to 5, junior colleges and the millennia institute will return to school on june 28, when the new term begins.
moe said that for centre-based classes such as third language or art and music elective programmes, graduating students will resume in-person lessons from the first week of term 3, while non-graduating students will continue with home-based learning.
centre-based classes will resume in-person for all students from the second week of term 3. moe also said that institutes of higher learning will also progressively allow students back on campus.
from june 21, small-group classes or consultations that were previously conducted online can resume on campus.
students will continue to return for essential in-person sessions such as labs and practicals.
in-person examinations will also continue to be held with no more than 50 persons per venue.
all in-person classes and other activities on campus are subject to strict safe management measures.
classes and lectures with more than 50 persons will continue to be held online, said moe.
for those who require care arrangements for their young children, moe kindergartens and school-based student care centres will resume fully from june 28. special education school students will also have a staggered return to school from june 28 onwards, based on their needs.
all students will be back in school from july 6. moe also said that it plans to gradually resume in-person co-curricular activities from the second week of term 3, beginning with low-risk activities.
given the need to minimise intermingling of students from different schools, in line with the gradual resumption of student activities, the national school games for junior and c divisions, as well as the remaining games for a division, will be cancelled, it said.
all tuition and enrichment classes for individuals 18 years old and below can also resume in-person lessons from june 21. to ensure safe distancing and hygiene, schools and institutes of higher learning will ensure safe management measures are in place, said moe.
these include the wearing of masks at all times, daily temperature taking in school, and continued temperature and symptom screening at institutes of higher learning campus entrances.
schools will also have fixed exam-style seating and staggered recess timings, where students also have to be seated in a fixed arrangement with at least 1m spacing in between.
dining in canteens and dining halls at institutes of higher learning will also need to continue with the necessary safe management measures.
in a facebook post on monday, education minister chan chun sing said that good progress is being made with the student vaccination programme, as close to 90 per cent of students have signed up, with one in three having taken the first dose.
"going forward, we must combine vaccination with increased testing and rapid isolation of potential infection clusters to keep our schools open and safe," he said.
he added that students' well-being and undisrupted learning will remain a priority for moe, which will continue to monitor the situation closely and make adjustments.
get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from monday (june 14), which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening on monday will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post on sunday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore border measures will be tightened for travellers from fiji with immediate effect because of the worsening covid-19 situation there, said the ministry of health (moh) on monday (june 14).
all those who enter singapore with a travel history to fiji in the past 21 days will now be required to serve a 21-day stay-home notice (shn) in dedicated facilities, added moh in its statement.
previously, travellers were subject to a 21-day shn, with 14 days in dedicated facilities and the remaining seven at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.
on the other hand, travellers from israel who arrive in singapore from 11.
59pm on wednesday (june 16), will serve a 14-day shn at dedicated facilities and seven days at their place of residence, said moh.
they are currently subject to a 21-day shn at dedicated facilities if they had a travel history to israel in the past 21 days.
this was given the improving situation in israel, said moh, so a "risk-based approach" will be adopted.
all travellers serving a 21-day shn will undergo covid-19 polymerase chain reaction tests on arrival, day 14 of their shn, and before the end of their 21-day shn period.
moh said a multi-ministry task force regularly reviews singapore's border measures to manage the risk of importation from travellers and onward local transmission.
it added that "as the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our border measures".
any changes to border measures will be updated on the safetravel website.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published: 12:59am, 14 jun, 2021updated: 1:05am, 14 jun, 2021
josiah mayo surveyed the ocean's surface on friday, watching the bubbles that emerged from his fishing partner's underwater breathing gear.
it was michael packard's second plunge into the ocean off the coast of cape cod that morning and he had already caught about 100 pounds of lobster.
but the bubbles suddenly stopped.
then, an explosion of white water erupted from the sea.
mayo wasn't sure what he was witnessing.
a burly fish thrashed before him and for a split second he thought it was a great white shark.
then mayo saw its flukes cut through the water and observed it violently shake its head.
"this was a humpback whale," mayo, 43, told himself, as he recounted in an interview with the washington post.
"it was a relief because it wasn't a shark, which meant michael would be all done at that point.
"moments later there was another mighty boil of white water and packard soared out of the ocean and flopped back down.
mayo sped the boat up next to packard, who was floating in a puffed-out drysuit thanks to the whale's speedy ascent to the surface.
"i was inside it.
i was inside its mouth," packard, 56, told mayo.
"it tried to eat me.
"packard's harrowing tale is rare and unheard of among the experienced divers of provincetown, mass.
humpback whales don't harm people on purpose, said mayo, who worked on whale-watching boats as a teenager and whose father is a premier whale scientist.
mayo said his father and his colleagues believe the only logical explanation was that the whale swallowed packard by accident.
"it took [packard] from behind and it seemed like it fully enveloped him immediately," mayo said.
"that's kind of remarkable and so we can only imagine the whale was probably feeding.
"mayo added he believed it was a young whale.
"i like to think of it as a teenager or a puppy.
.
.
.
it probably doesn't know what it's doing too well," he said.
a similar incident occurred off the coast of port elizabeth, south africa, in 2019 when a bryde's whale scooped up a marine conservationist documenting a mass migration.
experts who witnessed the event also said it was an accident, noting the whales are "gentle giants," one said in a short documentary.
diving is a dangerous occupation and packard, a provincetown native who has been commercial diving since he was 18, has come close to death more times than most, mayo said.
while lobster diving in 2017, packard came across the body of a fellow diver who was lost at sea six years earlier.
packard has gotten lost a few times himself, mayo said, thanks to a strong current that carried him far from the boat.
mayo, fortunately, found him each time.
packard spent years diving for abalone in the shark-filled waters off the coast of central california, mayo said.
he's gotten concussions, injured his hand a few times and had two close encounters with great white sharks in cape cod.
"clearly they weren't interested in eating him because they would have, since they could have," mayo said.
packard also nearly died in 2001 when he was in a plane crash in costa rica and suffered life-threatening injuries.
three people died and at least four others survived.
on friday around 5:30 a. m. , mayo and packard set off into calm water in their fishing vessel, named the "ja'n j" after packard's 12- and 16-year-old sons.
the two have worked together for about 15 years and often fish for lobster, bluefin tuna and mackerel.
packard's first dive that morning "wasn't great," mayo said, requiring his partner to go back in a few more times.
at about 8 a. m. , packard plunged about 45 feet deep, and almost reached the ocean floor when he "felt this truck hit me and everything just went dark," he said in an interview with wbts.
"and i could feel just .
.
.
hard stuff all around me," packard said.
"and i just thought, 'did i just get eaten by a white shark?'
and then i said, 'no, i don't feel any teeth. '
and i said, 'oh my god, i'm in the mouth of a whale.
with his mouth shut. '
"packard felt the whale swimming and shoved his breathing regulator back into his mouth.
"i'm like, 'this is how you're gonna go, michael.
this is how you're going to die.
in the mouth of a whale,' " he recalled thinking.
for about 30 to 40 seconds, packard twisted, turned and coped with an agonizing pressure on his legs.
he could feel the whale's forceful head shakes.
then came the light.
"i just got thrown out of his mouth, into the water — there was white water everywhere," he said.
"and i just was lying on the surface floating and saw his tail and he went back down.
and i was like, 'oh my god, i got out of that.
i survived.
'"with the help of a friend who was fishing nearby and witnessed the incident, mayo gently pulled packard out of the water and removed his drysuit.
packard was calm and fully cognizant, mayo said, and told the men he thought his legs were broken.
they also worried that packard had an embolism because the whale drove him up to the surface so quickly, a "no-no in diving," mayo said.
mayo then called the ambulance, rescue squad and packard's wife and drove full-speed toward the dock.
hospital staff were in awe of packard's story, he said in an "ask me anything" on reddit on sunday.
"i said 'i got stuck in a whale's mouth,'" packard's son wrote on behalf of his father.
"all the nurses and doctors at the hospital came to see me and ask me about it.
one nurse came in with a notepad, she asked me for lottery numbers!
"after tests, doctors told packard he had no broken bones and there were no signs of an embolism.
his legs were badly bruised, and he had a dislocated knee.
doctors sent him home later that day.
packard's story quickly spread throughout the town and eventually made national and international headlines.
though packard's experience appears fantastical, his reputation among locals as an experienced angler made his account all the more believable, mayo said.
"if it was some yahoo, i think we'd be arguing if it actually happened," mayo said.
"you see him narrating what happened and it's just .
.
.
so very clearly true and obvious what happened.
"packard's bruised legs have forced him to stay grounded as they heal, but he's already planning his next trip out into the ocean.
"it looks like being the tough son of a gun he is, he's ready to be back at it as soon as he can be," mayo said.
"i think we'll probably be diving in a week, which is pretty remarkable.
"the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore (the business times) bulk shipping company pan ocean is proposing a voluntary delisting from the singapore exchange with a conditional cash exit offer of $8.
70 per share.
this represents a premium to the shares' last transacted price of $8 on may 10, its last trading day.
the delisting is not a privatisation exercise, pan ocean and its south korean parent company harim holdings said in a joint announcement of monday (june 14).
the company intends to maintain its primary listing on the korea exchange (krx), and singapore registered shareholders can elect to have their shares transferred from the singapore branch register to the south korea register if they wish.
the exit offer will not be extended to the shareholders of the company whose shares are registered on the company's principal register of shareholders in south korea.
in the announcement, pan ocean and harim said that in maintaining the dual listing, pan ocean incurs costs that could be focused on business operations.
krx is also geographically more aligned with the company's business operations and core business competencies, which are based in south korea, it said.
furthermore, trading liquidity in singapore is generally thin, with an average of 86 shares traded in the last one month leading up to its last trading day.
there are only 170,597 shares, representing about 0.
03 per cent of the total number of issued shares, trading on the sgx, as at the monday announcement.
moreover, pan ocean has no need for access to capital markets and has not carried out any exercise to raise cash funding on the sgx in the last five years.
the delisting is subject to the approval of the sgx and both the delisting and exit offer will be conditional on the obtaining of shareholders' approval at an extraordinary general meeting.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore the people's association (pa) has withdrawn its offer to meet a malay/muslim couple whose photo was used as a standee for hari raya aidilfitri decorations without permission, citing disagreements with them over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, had posted on social media on may 28 about the inappropriate use of her wedding photograph at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
however, in a facebook post on monday (june 14), the pa, which oversees various grassroots groups, said it saw no point in going ahead with the meeting, citing ms sarah's recent comments on the matter.
the pa said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and was "racist".
the agency rejected these claims, saying: "while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments.
"[[nid:530926]]it also noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting.
"we find this odd.
we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," the pa added.
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"the couple's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
the vendor came up with the concept and design, and downloaded and used the photo from an online source for the standee.
after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also made references to two instagram stories ms sarah had posted recently in explaining its response.
in the first, she reshared an instagram story by another instagram user, @jeanpsychologist, who had responded to an instagram post ms sarah had made.
user @jeanpsychologist thanked ms sarah for posting on the incident, and called for chinese singaporeans to "educate ourselves on our conditioned racism", saying this is "long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them".
in the second instagram story, ms sarah penned a series of reflections on the incident, and said she was thankful to those who had stood in solidarity with her and her husband as well as other ethnic minorities in the aftermath of "this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed)".
the pa also claimed ms sarah had insinuated in an online talk show on june 7 that pa's staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
she had been asked by host walid jumblatt abdullah, an assistant professor from nanyang technological university, whether she would accept an invitation from mr yong to meet in person if he had made such an offer.
ms sarah replied she would, wondered if the mp had seen the standee, and added that "something is definitely wrong" if he had seen the standee and did not say anything about it.
she also referred to someone's comment about internalised racism, and spoke about how some people are blind to racism, or feel there is nothing wrong with racism as it does not impact them.
in its post, the pa stressed it remains steadfast in its mission to promote racial harmony, and that its grassroots organisations, such as the malay activity executive committees council and narpani pearavai, play a key role in representing the interests of the malay and indian communities.
"we regularly reach out to numerous community partners among all our races and religions to ensure their concerns are actively considered when designing our programmes," it added.
the pa also said that what happened at radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
"we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures.
singaporeans becoming "one people" is a work in progress and so is the pa. "the pa also said ms sarah's allegation in her e-mail on june 1, that the pa was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" to "distance and deflect blame" from itself, was untrue.
it said the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on may 28 and apologised, before the pa issued its statement on may 29. the straits times has contacted ms sarah for comment.
she had written on instagram on june 1, after acknowledging pa's apology: "as an ethnic minority, this isn't new — seeing others have a superficial understanding of my culture and then feeling like i have to explain it is.
.
.
exhausting.
but i want to help bridge that gap where possible through real and respectful conversations so that we can move beyond superficial understanding and promote deeper social cohesion.
"[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cpkvyrcbx8u/?utm_source=ig_embed&utm_campaign=loading[/embed]in her june 7 talk show, she also said she had spoken up about the incident as she would like to see more "tangible accountability" from the pa to ensure such incidents do not happen again.
this includes hearing about steps that they will take.
she also noted that when minorities speak up about their experiences, they are not doing so in order to incite racial disharmony.
the pa said in its post: "enhancing our understanding of singapore's various races, religions and cultures is a ceaseless effort — this lapse having been a good reminder of this.
.
.
we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia's move to start inoculating workers in key economic sectors against covid-19 before the completion of vaccinations for senior citizens and front-liners has drawn criticisms from several opposition politicians.
mr khairy jamaluddin, the national coordinating minister for immunisation, said on monday (june 14) that the government will begin vaccinating industry workers from wednesday, as part of measures to reduce infections in workplaces that continue to dominate the number of new clusters.
vaccine centres will be opened for the manufacturing, construction, plantation, retail and hospitality sectors.
a total of 30,000 doses will be set aside to inoculate factory workers this month.
"if we look at the daily covid-19 data on sunday, 11 out of 15 clusters are workplace outbreaks, involving almost 200 active cases," mr khairy told a news conference.
"this is why we made the decision for the fourth phase, or the pandemic control phase, to kick off as soon as possible to reduce the number of workplace clusters and stop the transmission of infections among workers.
"but the move announced last week was slammed by the opposition who pointed out that the vaccination of front-liners and senior citizens has yet to be completed.
the management department director of the federal police, datuk ramli din, revealed last week that 20 per cent of the police force, many of whom have to man roadblocks during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, had yet to be vaccinated.
opposition democratic action party (dap) mp and former deputy education minister teo nie ching said on june 10: "kj (khairy jamaluddin) promised in march that teachers would be prioritised in phase two.
however as at june 5, only 70,000, or 16.
2 per cent, of the teachers under the ministry of education had been vaccinated.
when will the remaining 83.
8 per cent of the teachers get their vaccine?
"teachers are currently conducting classes online until end-july.
while some 57 per cent of senior citizens are expected to be vaccinated by mid-june, it appears the rest may have to wait while the government fast-tracks vaccines for workers, said dap mp khoo poay tiong on june 9.
"as khairy himself has repeatedly stated, our supply of covid-19 vaccines is limited.
starting phase four concurrently with phase two means fewer vaccines would be available for senior citizens.
this is a major deviation from the government's own policy.
in effect, senior citizens would have to wait longer for their vaccine although they are categorised as a high-risk group.
"the states of pahang, terengganu and kelantan, as well as sabah in borneo, have the lowest vaccine take-up rates in the country.
as at june 6, the registration rates for pahang, kelantan and terengganu were 43.
36 per cent, 36.
83 per cent and 43.
28 per cent respectively, dap pahang assemblyman chiong yoke kong said last week.
sabah has the lowest rate at 19.
75 per cent.
in contrast, putrajaya and kuala lumpur have the highest rates of 100 per cent and 70.
65 per cent respectively.
kelantan, terengganu and pahang also have the highest number of people who skipped their vaccine appointments, totalling more than 10,000 in each state.
believing in fake news, not checking the vaccine app and transport issues, were some of the reasons for missing the appointments, said mr chiong.
prime minister muhyiddin yassin on sunday said the government is confident that kuala lumpur and putrajaya will achieve herd immunity earlier than expected by august.
malaysia recorded 4,949 new cases on monday, with 2,026 of them from selangor and kuala lumpur.
there are a total of 662,457 cases so far.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
former england defender gary neville has heaped praise on gareth southgate after the three lions' euros 2020 victory over croatia, labelling the manager "our biggest asset".
england won their opening game at a european championships for the first time ever as raheem sterling's goal earned a 1-0 victory at wembley.
southgate made several bold calls, starting kieran trippier out of position at left-back, raheem sterling in attack despite his poor club form and kalvin phillips in midfield alongside declan rice.
however, the manager's team selection paid off, with trippier part of a new-look back four that was rarely troubled, while phillips set up sterling's winner in a superb display.
"i was shocked by the inclusion of trippier at left-back like most people but not in a doubting way because i don't doubt the manager," neville said on itv.
"i think we've got an outstanding international manager who's got unbelievable experience.
"there are a lot of things that i would have said historically would have gone against england today.
two-o'clock kick-off, 30 degrees, playing against a team that passed us off the park in the last tournament, an experienced team.
not having his best defender, not having his best team.
"i thought he managed that game unbelievably today.
you talk about who the best player was, it might be kalvin phillips or raheem sterling but our biggest asset is our manager.
"the clamour in the past would have been to for grealish and he didn't even bring him off the bench.
so, he's willing to make the unpopular decisions, ones that some of us ultimately, at times, don't think he should make because he knows that group better than anyone.
he knows how to get a performance and a result better than anyone.
"he's had seven or eight tournaments now, as a coach now, with the u21s, as a player.
he's vastly experienced and i feel really comfortable with him there, as an england fan, and what he did today was really good.
"read moregareth southgate hails 'outstanding' kalvin phillips as england man bosses midfield against croatiakalvin phillips leads the way as england show promising signs of solving age-old problem in croatia winraheem sterling sends a cryptic message about his difficult season for manchester city after england winan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
shanghai-based global times reporter covering domestic affairs, international relations, shanghai and its surrounding areas.
global times reporter based in shanghai, covering financial news and breaking news related to large corps surrounding shanghai.
unit 1 of the taishan nuclear power plant begins commercial operations on december 13.  photo: vcgthe japanese government's decision to discharge contaminated wastewater from the fukushima nuclear plant into the sea has triggered .
.
.
the tianwan nuclear power plant, the largest technical and economic cooperation project between china and russia at the .
.
.
singapore: gojek drivers in singapore will pay less to the ride-hailing platform from jun 21, in a scheme that will last to at least the end of 2022. the company announced on monday (jun 14) it would reduce service fees for all drivers from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, "allowing them to take home more earnings immediately without having to rely on incentives".
it will also implement a flat fee payout of s$3 for pickups of 3km or more, as well as new daily peak hour targets.
gojek said this would boost earnings by up to s$100 during peak hours.
the new service fee, flat fee payout and peak hour targets will be implemented on jun 21. there are no performance requirements for the lower service fees and all drivers are eligible regardless of their goalbetter tier, said gojek on its driver-partner blog.
for gojek taxi drivers, their service fees will continue to be waived until aug 8, 2021. there will also be no performance requirements for the s$3 flat fee for far pickups.
all drivers, as well as both gocar and gotaxi trips, are eligible for the s$3 flat fee.
"these changes .
.
.
are designed to help (driver-partners) take home more earnings per trip and build a sustainable livelihood on the gojek platform," said mr lien choong luen, general manager of gojek singapore.
the press release added: "the changes announced today reflect a significant investment in singapore a strategic market for gojek and are aligned to the company's goal to further strengthen its market share and maximise business potential in the country.
"fare increase by grabgojek's latest moves comes off the back of changes made by rival grab, which last monthincreased its fares by s$1 for passengers using the app.
the increase took effect from jun 1, with 100 per cent of the s$1 going to drivers for the month of june 2021. the firm, which typically takes about 20 per cent of each fare, said it would not collect commissions from this s$1 during this period.
grab said then that the revision was aimed at improving earnings for drivers.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — while the use of a malay-muslim couple's wedding photo as a standee in hari raya decorations by the people's association (pa) last month was "culturally insensitive", it was certainly not "racist", said the pa in a facebook post on monday (14 june).
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said the pa in a detailed post, adding that it saw "no point" in proceeding with an arranged meeting with sarah bagharib and her husband razif abdullah.
in an instagram post on 28 may, sarah had highlighted the use of the photo to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas member of parliament melvin yong and his hari raya wishes for residents.
noting that neither she nor her husband had given consent for the photo to be used by the pa, sarah added, "the inappropriate appropriation and use of our cultural symbol only succeeded in showing people('s) association's superficial understanding of malay/singaporean muslim culture".
the post has garnered almost 18,000 likes.
in its post on monday, the pa noted that it had removed the standee and apologised to the couple, as well as posting a public apology on its social media platforms.
its post on 29 may revealed that warabi enterprise (art studio) had been engaged by radin mas constituency office (co) to design and put up hari raya decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
however, in the process, the vendor downloaded sarah's photo from an online source and then used it for a cut-out standee.
and while the pa spoke to the vendor on the seriousness of the incident, it stressed, "the pa, including radin mas co, take responsibility for this error as we have oversight of the matter.
"in addition, the pa offered on monday to meet with the couple to apologise in person.
"we also wished to clarify our position, elaborate on the steps we have taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how we might improve at the meeting.
"however, it claimed that sarah had said this incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and characterised the incident as "racist".
in an instagram live interview with walid j.  abdullah last tuesday, said the pa, she also insinuated that pa staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
"these are accusations we reject," said the pa. furthermore, in sarah's public social media posts about her upcoming meeting with the pa, she had made a public call for anyone to "please share your messages/suggestions to pa here and we'll share them".
"we find this odd," said the pa.  "we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident.
"the pa added, "all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"it also claimed that sarah's email to the pa on 1 june alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"this is untrue.
the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," said the pa.  "it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself.
"we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"pa also said it is looking at setting up a resource panel to guide its staff on cultural matters, and stepping up training to enhance its staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of different cultures.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:of 25 new covid cases in singapore, 19 local including 1 dorm residentman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
father's day is coming up.
show him that you care with a special unique gift.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
do more for your budget.
shop with a paypal business debit card and get cash back.
*an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
amazon.
comwith its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistthe philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
drivers in texas can't believe this is true.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
seoul: south korea began easing restrictions on large concerts and sports events on monday (jun 14) after announcing last week it would loosen a series of coronavirus curbs as the country pushes ahead with its vaccination drive.
up to 4,000 people will be allowed to attend k-pop concerts and other cultural shows from monday, up massively from a capacity limit of below 100 people since late last year, according to measures announced by health officials on friday.
sports stadiums will be able to operate at a 30 per cent to 50 per cent capacity, depending on the districts, up from 10 per cent previously.
while south korea has fought small clusters of coronavirus infections in recent months, the daily infection number hit a two-month low on sunday while the government has pushed through with its vaccination drive.
the government has also said it would loosen some quarantine restrictions for fully vaccinated overseas visitors.
from jul 1, some of those travellers can apply for exemptions from having to observe south korea's mandatory two-week quarantine if they are visiting family or travelling for the purpose of business, academics or public interest, health authorities said on sunday.
as thecovid-19 vaccine rolloutgains momentum, many countries are planning a gradual return to normal, opening borders and letting people back into restaurants, shops and sports venues after more than a year of on-off lockdowns.
south korean tour agencies were also preparing new travel packages after the government's announcement last week that it is accelerating talks aimed at securing "travel bubbles" with a few countries, including singapore and thailand, the korea association of travel agents told reuters.
south korea has given a first dose to over 11.
8 million people or 23 per cent of the country's population, the korea disease control and prevention agency (kdca) director jeong eun-kyeong told a briefing.
that is below the vaccination rate seen in many advanced countries, such as 61 per cent in the uk, but higher than 12 per cent in japan, according to a reuters tally of state and local government sources.
japan started vaccinating its population in february like south korea.
while there has been a significant drop in new cases at nursing homes as many elderly have received vaccines, south korea will only see a full-scale reduction in the number of local transmissions in september when over 70 per cent will have been inoculated, said jeong.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
 merewards lets you get coupon deals, and earn cashback when you complete surveys, dine, travel and shop with our partners singapore: more than half of the 18 new community covid-19 cases reported in singapore on monday (jun 14) are linked to a cluster at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
in its evening update, the ministry of health (moh) reported ten infections linked to the cluster, including two food stall vendors, a cooking assistant and a general worker at a food stall.
the other six cases linked to the bukit merah market cluster are: an it engineer at ibm (changi business park central 1), a student at ite college central, an unemployed woman, two retirees and a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre.
a total of 16 confirmed cases are now linked to the cluster at bukit merah view market.
the market has been closed since sunday and will remain so until tuesday to facilitate deep cleaning and to break potential transmission chains.
case 64184 clustersix other community cases were linked to case 64184, a male engineer who works at ecoxplore.
these include three cleaners who work at ascent (science park drive), eunike living and emerald park condominium.
the other three community cases linked to case 64184 are a student at amity global institute, an analyst at pinnacle credit services and a foreign domestic worker.
the total of 18 new community cases reported on monday is the highest daily number of locally transmitted infections reported in singapore since jun 3, when 35 community cases were reported.
one case was reported in a migrant workers' dormitory, a 26-year-old indian man who works as an electrician at gt engrg.
he lives at westlite juniper at 23 mandai estate.
the sole dormitory case is also a close contact of case 64184. one unlinked caseafter reporting two unlinked cases in its preliminary update, moh revised the number to one following epidemiological investigations.
the remaining 18 locally transmitted infections are linked to previous cases.
the sole unlinked case is a cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4, a 79-year-old singaporean man who is employed by ao servicepro.
there were also six imported cases, all of which had been placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in singapore.
three were returning singaporeans or permanent residents.
in all, singapore reported 25 new covid-19 infections on monday.
twenty-five more people were discharged, bringing the total number of fully recovered patients to 61,894. there are currently 138 cases in hospital, with two in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 235 have been isolated and are being cared for at community facilities.
new locations visited by community casestelok blangah food centre and three shopping malls were added to the list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
vivocity, ion orchard and excelsior shopping centre were also listed.
the full list of new locations is as follows:



                        

(image: moh)


diy covid-19 test kits available from jun 16covid-19 antigen rapid test kits for self-testing will be available in pharmacies from jun 16. these tests produce results in less than 20 minutes and detect the viral proteins in the nasal swab samples of infected people.
the tests are usually most accurate in the early stages of infection.
four self-test kits have received interim authorisation from the health sciences authority and will be sold at selected unity, watsons and guardian outlets.
the four test kits are: abbott panbio covid-19 antigen self-test, quickvue at-home otc covid-19 test, sd biosensor sars-cov-2 antigen self-test nasal and sd biosensor standard q covid-19 ag home test.
customers may purchase the test kits without a doctor's prescription but must first consult the in-store pharmacist.
as of monday, singapore has reported 62,301 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities.
download our app or subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
copyright© mediacorp 2021.  mediacorp pte ltd.  all rights reserved.
singapore: singapore-headquartered carro, a southeast asian online automotive marketplace, said on tuesday (jun 15) it has raised us$360 million in its latest funding round led by softbank vision fund 2, becoming the region's latest unicorn.
"the valuation for the company is well over a billion dollars," ceo and founder of carro, aaron tan, told reuters.
he did not provide a specific number.
carro will use the fresh capital to expand into new locations and grow its business in its existing markets indonesia, thailand, malaysia, and singapore.
it also plans to expand its portfolio of financial services and accelerate development of artificial intelligence capabilities.
carro's platform allows consumers and wholesale businesses to buy and sell vehicles along with providing insurance and financing services.
other investors in the new round of financing include several prominent indonesian based funds including ev growth, it said.
since being founded in 2015, carro has raised more than us$400 million in equity and us$200 million in debt.
its previous investors include softbank ventures asia, edbi pte, insignia ventures partners and b capital group.
the company has started preparing internally for an initial public offering (ipo), tan said.
"the plan is to ipo the company, hopefully, in the next 18 to 24 months in the us, depending on whether the market holds," he said.
while carro saw an initial decline in business due to the covid-19 pandemic, like other digital businesses, the company is now benefiting from users shifting to online transactions.
"people are more willing to buy vehicles entirely online without the need to visit a showroom," he said.
carro booked revenues of us$300 million for the year ending march 2021 and has registered positive ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for two years.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using food delivery services will be extended by an additional month.
enterprise singapore yesterday said the food delivery booster package will support businesses and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run.
the package, which started on may 16 and subsidises part of businesses' delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. in addition, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. see the big story • delivery subsidies package for f&b firms gets extendedjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when mr raj started looking at pre-schools for his 13-month-old twins, he was hopeful they would have the chance to learn tamil, which is spoken by his family.
but the closest centre offering the mother tongue language was too far away, and did not have vacancies.
so the public servant and his wife settled for a nearby school that offered chinese as the lone mother tongue option.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — a 17-year-old boy who wanted to find himself a sugar mummy after being kicked out by his mother, was preyed upon by a 26-year-old man instead.
the victim had put up an advertisement on platform locanto expecting elder women to reply.
he instead received a reply from muhammad al-masfuiin mushin, who pretended to be a woman to lure the victim to his flat.
al-masfuiin, a singaporean, was jailed for 10 months on monday (14 june), after he pleaded guilty to one count of obtaining the sexual service of a minor under 18the victim cannot be named due to a gag order protecting his identity.
on 16 june 2019, the teen got into a heated argument with his mother and was kicked out of the house.
in need of money, he placed an advertisement on locanto, which he had downloaded two years ago in order to earn money by providing sexual services.
the advertisement was titled "toyboy fantasy satisfies you- 18", and stated that he was looking for a "sugar mummy" who could pay him in return for sexual services.
he included his mobile phone number and two photographs of himself.
the next day, al-masfuiin saw the advertisement and decided to chat up the victim while posing as a woman.
he told the boy, "i'm looking for a young boy to be my sex slave" and asked the victim for his photographs and body statistics.
when the victim asked if he was male or female, al-masfuiin said she was female.
the victim told him that he was 17 years old and in need of money as he had been chased out of his house.
as a "woman", al-masfuiin asked the victim for a threesome with "her" and "her boyfriend", even though there would be no female involved.
the victim agreed and asked for $250 per meet up.
at about 10.
38pm that day, the victim messaged al-masfuiin to ask if they were able to meet up.
al-masfuiin was aware that the victim had no place to stay.
he told the victim that he could stay at "her boyfriend's place" and that "he'll send a grab to let you stay over".
al-masfuiin texted that he also expected the boy to service "her boyfriend".
al-masfuiin then arranged transport for the victim.
at about 1am on 18 june 2019, al-masfuiin sent a grab to the victim, who asked al-masfuiin if "she" was joining the sex session.
al-masfuiin replied "she might not" but that her "boyfriend will tell me if you did a great job at sex".
when the victim asked if the boyfriend knew his age, al-masfuiin replied "yes" and "i like my boys young".
after the victim arrived at al-masfuiin's apartment, al-masfuiin told him to take a shower while he sat on the sofa bed in the living room masturbating himself.
the two engaged in sexual acts, with al-masfuiin overpowering the boy when the latter resisted.
after the incident, the boy went to sleep.
he woke at about 8.
30am and asked al-masfuiin for money to go to work.
al-masfuiin took out a $50 note from his wallet and handed it to the victim before the two parted ways.
according to court documents, a police officer performing foot patrol came across the victim on 18 june 2019 at toa payoh central.
during the course of investigations, the officer discovered messages relating to him providing sexual services, in his phone.
al-masfuiin was arrested afterwards.
commercial sex with a minor under 18 carries a jail term of up to seven years, with fine, or both.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:singapore reports 13 new covid-19 cases, 10 from the communitycovid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
carro, one of southeast asia's biggest online marketplaces for used cars, has raised $360 million led by softbank vision fund ii to fuel expansion in thailand and indonesia before pursuing a u. s.  listing.
the fresh capital pushed carro's valuation to more than $1 billion, the company said in a statement.
the business competes with carousell and carsome in southeast asia.
carro, formally known as trusty cars pte, is seeking to bolster its market position in indonesia, thailand, malaysia and singapore as well as broadening its financial services.
the company is targeting an initial public offering in the u. s.  within the next two years, chief executive officer aaron tan said in an interview.
"an ipo remains on the horizon for us," tan said.
"eighteen to 24 months is achievable. "
he added that the firm is on track to handle more than 200,000 used-vehicle transactions this year.
softbank group corp.  has minted a number of unicorns this year.
they include singapore-based patent analytics provider patsnap and indian banking technology provider zeta.
carro simplifies the car buying and selling process for both consumers and dealers by leveraging artificial intelligence, greg moon, managing partner of softbank investment advisers, said in the statement.
softbank has been backing carro since its venture capital arm softbank ventures asia first invested in the startup in 2016.
advertisementsupported bybinyamin appelbaumby binyamin appelbaummr.
appelbaum is a member of the editorial board.
the decline of corporate taxation in recent decades is generally blamed on pirate states like luxembourg, ireland and bermuda, which offer an alluring combination of very low tax rates and an unembarrassed enthusiasm for allowing companies to play make-believe.
but the pirates have a silent partner: the united states.
generations of american policymakers haven't shown much interest in collecting money from corporations.
regarding corporate taxation as politically necessary but economically suspect, they have responded to tax evasion by making disapproving noises.
they have allowed companies to pretend profits are earned in low-tax countries and then cited the loss of tax revenue as the justification for tax cuts.
little wonder the united states collects a smaller share of tax revenue from corporations than any other major economy does.
the biden administration has put forward a plausible plan to break with this pattern and make companies pay more taxes by raising domestic rates and penalizing firms that shift profits to tax havens.
it has won the support of other leading economies for an international minimum corporate tax rate.
but a familiar obstacle, congress, stands in the way.
the anti-tax radicals in the republican party oppose any plan to collect more money from corporations — even money otherwise paid to foreign governments — and an international agreement could require the support of two-thirds of the senate.
the biden administration could achieve many of its goals without a deal by legislating changes to u. s.  tax law.
but there's a lack of enthusiasm among some senate democrats, too.
rumblings of discontent already have prompted the white house to pare its plans.
the basic case for more corporate taxation is that the government needs the money.
the biden administration plans to use it to rebuild bridges, replace water pipes and increase renewable energy output.
some economists argue higher taxes will slow economic growth, but decades of cutting corporate taxes haven't exactly produced the promised economic miracles.
even if there is a price, taking money from the rich for the benefit of the many can still be sound policy.
the distribution of prosperity matters, as well.
the work has to begin at home.
the focus on foreign tax havens has obscured the extent to which the united states has become a tax haven for u. s.  companies.
the statutory tax rate is 21 percent.
but american multinationals paid just 7.
8 percent of domestic profits in taxes in 2018, according to the congressional joint committee on taxation.
while those companies made liberal use of foreign tax havens, too, the total tax rate on their foreign profits was actually a little higher than the tax rate on their domestic profits.
the biden administration has proposed raising the domestic rate to 28 percent and imposing a 21 percent tax rate on profits reported in foreign countries.
it is also seeking an international agreement on a 15 percent minimum corporate tax rate.
firms would pay at least that much, irrespective of where they operated or claimed to operate.
they would get credit for taxes paid in foreign countries, but if they paid less than 15 percent of profits, the home country would collect the difference.
such a deal would limit the competitive disadvantage of american companies.
janet yellen, the treasury secretary, who is leading the negotiations, argues that it would also benefit the global economy by ending tax-rate bidding wars and encouraging countries to compete instead by educating workers and investing in infrastructure.
some pirate states, notably ireland, have vocally protested, arguing that they use low tax rates to promote legitimate economic development.
for ireland, this is a half-truth.
for even smaller tax havens, it's pure nonsense.
companies that book profits on the isle of jersey are playing the same game as freighters that fly the flag of liberia.
multinationals book about 25 percent of profits in tax havens where, on average, they have 11 percent of assets and 5 percent of their employees, according to the organization for economic cooperation and development.
ireland's position is understandable but unacceptable and ultimately not much of an obstacle.
if the major economies agree to adopt the american scheme, ireland can keep on pretending that it's a major center of corporate activity, but corporations will still have to pay their bills back home.
ireland would lose most of its utility as a tax haven.
the u. s.  wants a deal for another reason, too.
countries have generally sought to limit tax conflicts by agreeing that corporations should pay taxes in the countries where they create value.
but that principle has been strained by the rise of american technology firms like facebook and google that make money in countries where they have little or no physical footprint.
european countries are moving to tax those firms, arguing that, for example, google is not just delivering a service to its users in france but also acquiring valuable information from french users.
as part of the broader deal, the united states is offering to let those countries tax a portion of the tech companies' profits in exchange for dropping the new taxes.
excitement about the prospect of an international agreement should be taken with a grain of history.
just a few decades ago, the average corporate tax rate in the developed world was almost 50 percent.
corporations and anti-tax ideologues have taken advantage of globalization to achieve a shift that is likely to endure for the foreseeable future.
a 15 percent minimum tax rate would simply arrest their progress.
but that's how change begins: you stop, you turn around, and then you start walking in the other direction.
the times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor.
we'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles.
here are some tips.
and here's our email: letters@nytimes.
com.
follow the new york times opinion section on facebook, twitter (@nytopinion) and instagram.
advertisement
beijing: china on monday (jun 14) accused the g7 of "political manipulation" after it criticised beijing over its human rights record in xinjiang and hong kong.
in a communique after a three-day summit in england, g7 leaders slammed china over abuses against minorities in the xinjiang region and activists in hong kong, while us president joe biden called for beijing to "start acting more responsibly in terms of international norms on human rights".
the chinese embassy in the united kingdom responded angrily on monday, and accused the g7 of "interfering".
"the group of seven takes advantage of xinjiang-related issues to engage in political manipulation and interfere in china's internal affairs, which we firmly oppose," an embassy spokesman said in a statement.
the statement accused the g7 of "lies, rumours and baseless accusations".
human rights groups say china has rounded up an estimated 1 million uyghurs and other minorities in xinjiang into internment camps, which beijing says is to eradicate islamic extremism.
"we will promote our values, including by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms," the g7 communique read.
at their first physical summit in nearly two years, leaders of the seven nations announced a number ofpledges on covid-19 vaccinations, climate change, rights and trade.
they also called for a new investigation in china into the origins of covid-19 prompting a response from the chinese embassy that the work needs to be done in a "scientific, objective and fair manner", without agreeing to a new probe.
"the current epidemic is still raging around the world, and the traceability work should be carried out by global scientists and should not be politicised," the embassy said.
the coronavirus first emerged in central china in late 2019, and the world health organization sent a team of international experts in january to probe its origins.
but their long-delayed report published in march drew no firm conclusions, and the investigation has since faced criticism for lacking transparency and access.
the g7 also announced a new infrastructure fund which president biden said would be "much more equitable" than china's massive belt and road initiative.
the chinese embassy statement complained in response that the "accusations against china on economic and trade issues in the communique are inconsistent with the facts and are unreasonable".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

        show ad
      if you ever wondered what it would be like for a human to be swallowed by a humpback whale finding nemo style, 56-year-old lobster diver michael packard can now tell the tale.
packard joined his son, jacob, for a reddit ask me anything yesterday, where he answered all pressing questions about what happened when he was fully swallowed by a whale while off the coast of provincetown, massachusetts while working last friday.
read moreman, do the cubs need to shut uppickup trucks keep getting bigger, more dangeroushow to make your air conditioner more effective and efficient when temperatures soarlet's talk about <em>in the heights</em> and the erasure of dark-skinned afro-latinx folkshear me out: the infield fly rule is dumb and needs to be done away withaccording to packard, he was forty-five feet below the surface when he felt a shove, then he was consumed by darkness.
in the ama he says his initial thought was that it was a shark, but "due to the lack of teeth and the size of it [he] soon realized that what [he] was in was a whale.
"packard was inside the whale's mouth for 30-40 seconds with limited mobility while the whale struggled to spit him out.
while inside the whale's mouth the diver lost his regulator.
thankfully he found it quickly, or he most likely would have suffocated in the pitch black.
convinced he was going to die that day, the father of two shared that his potential final thoughts were about his wife and kids.
humpback whales are not known for going after humans and packard was likely swallowed by accident while the whale scoured for krill or small fish.
even if the whale was really determined to swallow packard whole, it's fist-wide throat would have prevented it.
when it comes to how it the creatures' mouth felt wrapped around his body, it's understandably difficult for packard to describe.
"it was full of water, and i could feel the muscles of its mouth convulsing around me, it was a really strange feeling to be sure," packard says.
"can't draw a meaningful comparison.
"packard's friends swiftly rushed him to the cape cod hospital after the whale released him not too far from the boat, where he was treated for bruising and a dislocated knee.
at the hospital, packard says all the doctors and nurses stopped by to see him and hear his unbelievable story.
"one nurse came in with a notepad, she asked me for lottery numbers!"
packard says.
the series deadliest catch shows that trapping and fishing can be gruesome, and it's common for lobster divers to get swept out to sea or die from the spins.
however, packard will not let his brush with death keep him from the work he's dedicated fifteen years of his life to for too long.
"speaking as jacob, i don't even need to ask this," his son says.
"i have no doubt in my mind he will do everything he can to keep diving, it's his life and passion.
"a doctor at the hospital that treated michael packard after the alleged whale encounter told the new york post he should have been more injured.
the marine area command for australia's new south wales police force said an 18-year-old was "critically injured" by the whale.
top surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
the dogs had been trapped in the 400-foot-wide sinkhole in the central mexican state of puebla for four days.
kate hudson caused commotion on instagram on wednesday after sharing that she was turning to a new form of exercise after finding out that ww (formerly weight watchers) updated its fitness tracker to include sex as a calorie-burning activity.
"my boobs grew," the model wrote in reference to the 30 year difference.
drivers are surprised that they never knew about this.
if your car is driven less than 50 miles a day, you might want to read this.
"it's about digitally altering your body and enhancing your body in ways that dieting and plastic surgery can't even do for you.
"the songstress has declared this "big girl summer.
"at prices this low, you can snag a few.
so mad that i just learned this.
.
.
the english star was a vision in yellow versace.
jazz jennings, 20,  became famous in 2007 when she appeared on '20/20' with barbara walters.
now, the transgender activist joined yahoo!
for pride evolution, a one-hour discussion on the celebration of pride, to discuss her journey.
on monday, lizzo shared several photos of herself wearing a kente cloth patterned bikini by black-owned u. k.  based swimwear brand ashanti swimwear.
she also included a video where she posed for fans in bright green sunglasses.
effortlessly chic, must-haves"the expectations that i put on myself were pretty, pretty gnarly," the actor says of his famous family.
easy-to-clean glass and airtight technology is a match made in kitchen heaven: 'give away your tupperware and don't ask for it back,' said a fan.
the too faced sexy eyes rain or shine 3-piece set combines one of the world's bestselling mascaras with a foolproof primer that keeps you fresh-faced for 24 hours.
voip phones could have you trading in your current phone faster than you think.
take a look at voip now!save big on nintendo, apple, xbox, sony — save up to a whopping 90 percent!the actor, who is gay, celebrated pride with a steamy underwear shot.
steph curry's sister is tackling the topic of mental health with her new podcast.
the price of dental implants may actually surprise you.
research dental implants for seniorswhat to buy — and what to skip — on amazon prime day.
maya forstater won her appeal of the decision, celebrating with a tweet noting, "we won!"
which was promptly retweeted by rowling.
"i hope to make a vow to express my gratitude for all the things you do.
all the times you've held me up and carried me when i didn't think i'd be able to. "
singapore: a scheme to help f&b businesses defray the costs of providing food delivery services and going online has been extended by a month until jul 15, enterprise singapore said on sunday (jun 13).
since it was re-introduced on may 16, the food delivery booster package has benefitted more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling.
the scheme was introduced in april 2020 during singapore's "circuit breaker" period and removed as restrictions eased.
it has been made available again to boost support for f&b businesses during a tough period for the industry, ms low said.
there are now 13 partners supporting this scheme after seven companies were brought on board -food delivery platform bungkus and third-party logistics players chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
"in particular, the extension and expansion of the government's food delivery booster package .
.
.
seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on jun 21," ms low added.
from now until jul 15, enterprise singapore will fund 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by the four food delivery platforms bungkus, deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood.
the agency will also fund 20 per cent of the delivery costs for food delivery orders made through the nine third-party logistic partners currently supporting the initiative.
"the dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for our f&b sector," ms low said, adding that food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal.
citing department of statistics data, enterprise singapore said the covid-19 pandemic and changing consumer preferences have boosted the demand for food delivery services.
for the f&b sector, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
f&b businesses have also been relying on the scheme to diversify their operations by providing food delivery services.
"based on preliminary estimates from the first two weeks of phase 2 (heightened alert) from may 16 to may 29, the daily average number of online food deliveries supported under the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher than the daily average during the circuit breaker last year," enterprise singapore said.
ms low said the scheme "will place our f&b establishments in a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
(corrects to remove extraneous word "the" in paragraph 8)tokyo:     a u. s.  special forces veteran and his son pleaded guilty in tokyo on monday to charges that they illegally helped former nissan motor co ltd chairman carlos ghosn flee japan hidden in a box aboard a private jet in december 2019. chief judge hideo nirei, one of three judges presiding over their first court appearance, asked michael taylor and his son peter whether there was any mistake in the charges submitted by the tokyo prosecutors' office.
"no your honour," the older taylor replied.
"no," said his son.
extradited to japan from the united states in march, they are being held at the same jail in tokyo where ghosn was detained.
they could face up to three years in prison.
wearing black jackets and pants, white shirts and plastic slippers, they were were led into court with ropes threaded through handcuffs and tied around their waists.
prosecutors accused them of helping ghosn evade punishment and escape https://www.
reuters.
com/article/us-nissan-ghosn-charge-idcakbn2be0g1 to lebanon from western japan's kansai airport, receiving us$1.
3 million for their services, some of which was paid to an advertising company owned by the younger taylor.
the prosecutors' statement on monday, which described the younger taylor as a frequent visitor to lebanon, said planning for the escape began around six months before ghosn fled.
the statement also said that ghosn's wife carole ghosn sought help from michael taylor, with ghosn later contacting  him from tokyo with a phone he had hidden from japanese authorities.
a third man george-antoine zayek, recruited by the taylors, traveled to japan later in 2019 to find a way through airport security, settling on the private jet terminal at kansai airport as the best route out, the prosecutors said.
zayek remains at large.
luggage that does not fit through the security scanning machine there is inspected by hand.
that check, however, can be waived by the pilot.
the taylors' lawyers in the united states waged a months-long battle to prevent their extradition to japan, arguing they could not be prosecuted for helping someone "bail jump" and that they could face relentless interrogations and torture.
suspects in japan are interrogated without their lawyers present and are often denied bail before trial.
japan's conviction rate is 99per cent.
at the time of ghosn's escape, he was awaiting trial on charges that he understated his compensation in nissan's financial statements by 9.
3 billion yen (us$85 million) over a decade and enriched himself at his employer's expense through payments to car dealerships.
ghosn, who denies any wrongdoing, remains a fugitive in his childhood home, which has no extradition treaty with japan.
greg kelly, a former nissan executive charged with helping ghosn hide his earnings, is also standing trial in tokyo.
he denies the charges https://www.
reuters.
com/business/autos-transportation/court-former-nissan-executive-kelly-denies-helping-ghosn-hide-earnings-2021-05-12.
(reporting by tim kelly and kiyoshi takenaka; editing by himani sarkar & simon cameron-moore)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
as of sunday noon (13 jun), the ministry of health (moh) has preliminarily confirmed an additional 13 cases of covid-19 infection in singapore.
this brings the total number of infection cases to 62,279. there are 10 new cases of locally transmitted covid-19 infection.
eight are linked to previous cases, amongst whom five have already been placed on quarantine, and three were detected through surveillance.
the remaining two cases are currently unlinked.
"based on our investigations so far, the cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories," said moh.
in addition, there are three new imported cases, who had been placed on stay-home notice (shn) upon arrival in singapore.
of these, two are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the ministry will share further updates in its press release tonight.
according to last night's press release, there are currently 125 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
of these, most are stable or improving, and one is in critical condition in the intensive care unit (icu).
266 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
these are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19.
34 have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the bukit merah view market and food centre covid-19 cluster has grown by 10 cases, said the ministry of health (moh) on monday night (june 14).
this brings the total number of those infected in the cluster to 16. the ministry of health (moh) said a total of 25 new coronavirus cases were confirmed as at monday, including 19 locally transmitted cases.
of the 19 locally transmitted cases, 18 are in the community and one is from a workers' dormitory.
this is the highest number of community cases in singapore since june 3.  it is also the first time a dormitory case has been reported since june 8. the ministry said that of the 18 community cases, 17 are linked 12 were already under quarantine and five were detected through surveillance while one is unlinked.
among the 10 new cases in the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster is a 17-year-old male student at ite college central, a household contact of another case confirmed on monday.
he developed a fever and cough on june 11 and went to a gp clinic, where he was given both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
his art test was negative for covid-19, but his pcr test came back positive.
his serology test which looks for antibodies that indicate a past infection is pending results.
a 94-year-old singaporean man who regularly goes to telok blangah parcview active ageing care hub was also among the new cases added to the cluster.
the retiree developed a runny nose on june 6 and fever six days later on june 12 but did not seek medical attention.
as he is the family member of another case, he was quarantined on june 13.  he tested positive that same day.
a 21-year-old singaporean woman, who works as an it engineer at ibm in changi business park, is another new case.
a family member of two other covid-19 cases and a household contact of a third, she developed a runny nose and fever on june 12 but also did not seek medical attention.
she was quarantined on june 13 and reported her symptoms on the same day.
she also tested positive that day.
a 16-year-old singaporean male student at anglo chinese school (independent) is among the other community cases confirmed on monday.
a family member of an earlier case, he was asymptomatic and was detected when he was tested on june 12 while under quarantine.
there is one unlinked case on monday.
he is a male singaporean, 79, employed by ao servicepro as a cleaner at block 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4.  he developed symptoms on june 12 and sought treatment the next day.
he received his first vaccination dose on june 5. one linked case in the dormitories was also reported.
the 26-year-old indian national works as an electrician at gt engrg and lives at westlite juniper dormitory in mandai.
he was added to a cluster linked to an engineer at ecoxplore.
there are also six imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
three of the six are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the 25 new cases on monday take singapore's total tally to 62,301. the weekly total number of cases is 91 this week, down from 159 the previous week.
there are 46 active clusters, down from 48 on sunday.
as at monday night, 138 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 235 are recovering in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: gas was deliberately released from a nuclear power plant in southern china as operators work to fix an issue at the facility, its french part-owner said on monday (jun 14) following a us media report of a potential leak.
cnn said the us government is assessing a report of a leak at the taishan nuclear power plant in populous guangdong province after framatome, a french firm that partly owns it, warned of an "imminent radiological threat".
edf, the majority owner of framatome, said the plant's number one reactor experienced a build-up of noble gases in its primary circuit, which is part of the cooling system.
the gas leaked after the coating on some fuel rods had deteriorated, said an edf spokesman, who asked not to be named.
noble gases are elements which have low chemical reactivity in this case it was xenon and krypton.
the gases were collected and treated as part of a process to remove any radiocativity before their release, which was normal and "in accordance with regulations", the spokesman said.
"we are not in a scenario of an accident with a melting core," he said.
"we are not talking about contamination, we are talking about controlled emissions.
"framatome said in a statement that the plant was operating "within the safety parameters" despite the"performance issue".
edf called an extraordinary meeting of the plant's board over the matter.
david fishman, manager at energy-focused consulting group the lantau group, said a cracked fuel road can potentially cause a small release of fission materials into the cooling loop, "where it wouldn't normally be".
"failed fuel or cracked fuel is a fairly normal and common undesirably certainly but not uncommon phenomenon in the nuclear fuel industry," fishman told afp.
not at 'crisis level'citing a letter from framatome to the us energy department, cnn said the warning included an accusation that the chinese safety authority was raising the acceptable limits for radiation outside the facility in order to avoid having to shut it down.
but a us official told the broadcaster that the administration of president joe biden believes the facility is not yet at "crisis level".
the operator of the station, state-owned china general nuclear power group (cgn), said in a statement on sunday evening that "the environmental indicators of taishan nuclear power plant and its surroundings are normal".
it did not reference any leak or incident at the power station, which it said meets "the requirements of nuclear safety regulations and power plant technical specifications.
"the international atomic energy agency, a un body, said it had contacted its counterpart in china regarding the issue.
"at this stage, the agency has no indication that a radiological incident occurred," the iaea said in a statement.
afp did not get an immediate response to a request for comment from either the chinese foreign ministry or the chinese nuclear power group.
a problem with a cracked fuel rod would have to be logged by the chinese nuclear safety administration with a mitigation report to fix the problem, fishman said.
fishman said framatome possibly reached out to the us to seek approval for their work at taishan because cgn is on a us entity blacklist.
"if (framatome) were going to transfer over any information that they have gotten from working in the us, they would have to apply for an exemption .
.
.
because cgn is on the us entity list," he said.
"it is a no-fly zone for any us information, any information or data or technology or ip to go to china.
"epr reactorspowered up in 2018, the taishan plant was the first worldwide to operate a next-generation epr nuclear reactor, a pressurised water design that has been subject to years of delays in similar european projects in britain, france and finland.
epr reactors have been touted as promising advances in safety and efficiency over conventional reactors while producing less waste.
nuclear plants supplied less than five per cent of china's annual electricity needs in 2019, according to the national energy administration, but this share is expected to grow as beijing attempts to become carbon neutral by 2060. china has 47 nuclear plants with a total generation capacity of 48.
75 gigawatts the world's third highest after the united states and france and has invested billions of dollars to develop its nuclear energy sector.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                in her new music video, karen mok is seen wearing a bathrobe from italian luxury brand dolce & gabbana.
photo: karen mok/vevohong kong singer karen mok has apologised after an outfit she wore in a new music video caused a backlash in china.
mok, 51, held her karen mok the ultimate grand slam show concert in hong kong over the weekend.
she launched her new album the voyage last week, which contained woman for all seasons, a reissue of her 2001 song of the same name.
in the music video for the new song, mok was seen wearing a bathrobe from italian luxury brand dolce & gabbana (d&g).
she also used the photo of her in the robe as her profile picture on weibo, the chinese micro-blogging site.
also read: hk screen legend kara hui says she begged for money on the streets from age 3 to 13the move caused a backlash in china, where many had been angered by a 2018 d&g campaign they viewed as culturally insensitive.
several chinese netizens demanded to know why mok was promoting such a brand, while others even called for a boycott of the singer.
the topic trended on weibo for several hours on saturday (june 12).
mok has since removed photos of her wearing the d&g outfit from her social media accounts and the music video from all platforms.
her agency and the designer involved in the outfit also apologised on weibo.
d&g caused outrage in china in late 2018 when clips from its advertising campaign showed a chinese model in a red d&g dress struggling to eat italian foods such as spaghetti and cannoli pastry with chopsticks.
the backlash escalated after screenshots of messages sent from d&g co-founder stefano gabbana's instagram account were leaked, in which he allegedly said negative things about china.
several celebrities such as singer karry wang and actress dilraba dilmurat then ended their ties with the brand.
– the straits times/asia news networkrelated stories:hk screen legend kara hui says she begged for money on the streets from age 3 to 13angelababy takes legal action against netizen for saying she's dating younger singerhong kong tvb actress nancy sit welcomes first grandchildbiopic on anita mui wraps production, lead actress still a mystery

tags / keywords:
karen mok



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
tokyo: an american father-son duo admitted their role in orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday (jun 14).
former special forces operative michael taylor, 60, and his 28-year-old son peter were extradited by united states authorities over claims that they smuggled ghosn out of the country in a music equipment case as he awaited trial.
at the tokyo district court, the pair said that they did not contest the facts laid out by prosecutors in an indictment, effectively conceding their role in the saga.
"is there any mistake in what the prosecutor just read?"
the judge asked each man in turn.
both replied no.
michael taylor was led in first to the courtroom, with his hands cuffed in front of him.
he wore plastic slippers, dark trousers and a white shirt with no tie.
his son was brought in after, with both men wearing face masks.
the pair face up to three years in prison if convicted of helping ghosn currently an international fugitive living in lebanon, which has no extradition treaty with japan.
ghosn was out on bail while awaiting trial on four counts of financial misconduct, which he denies, when he managed to slip past authorities onto a private jet, transit in turkey and land in lebanon.
on monday, prosecutors laid out again the almost cinematic details of the december 2019 escape, including that the taylors hid ghosn in a case to slip him past security at an airport.
"you helped him escape," said one prosecutor to the two men, who listened to proceedings through a translation earpiece.
ghosn's flight was hugely embarrassing for japanese authorities, with us prosecutors calling it "one of the most brazen and well-orchestrated escape acts in recent history".
us$1.
3 millionthe taylors fought their extradition to tokyo, claiming that they could face torture-like conditions, and have not commented on their case since arriving in early march.
local prosecutors declined to comment on their arraignment before the trial, but japanese media said that both men admitted wrongdoing during questioning.
public broadcaster nhk has said that peter received 144 million yen (us$1.
3 million) from the ghosns for their help.
the asahi shimbun daily said that the pair spent most of the money on preparations for the escape, including the costs of chartering a private jet, claiming that they were not paid for their help.
ghosn remains at large in lebanon, where he was questioned last month by french investigators over a series of alleged financial improprieties.
among the allegations are improper financial interactions with renault-nissan's distributor in oman, payments by a dutch subsidiary to consultants, and lavish parties organised at the palace of versailles.
the questioning took place with his defence team and a lebanese prosecutor present.
ghosn was heard as a witness as he would need to be in france to be formally indicted.
others involved in the ghosn case have faced legal proceedings, including his former aide at nissan, greg kelly, who is also on trial in tokyo for his alleged role in underreporting the tycoon's income.
and a turkish court has sentenced two pilots and another employee of a small private airline to four years and two months in prison for their role in ghosn's escape.
ghosn switched planes in turkey on his way to lebanon, and the three turks were charged with involvement in a conspiracy to smuggle a migrant.
a lebanese national still at large is also suspected of orchestrating ghosn's escape from japan.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
asiaone online has appointed sean ler as ceo, effective 16 june 2021.  ler (pictured) takes over from interim ceo of asiaone and group ceo for mm2 asia, chang long jong, who will remain as the group ceo for mm2 asia and on the board of directors of asiaone.
ler will be overseeing asiaone's strategy to grow audiences both locally and in the region.
he joined asiaone's parent company, mm2 asia, in may this year as head of group digital strategy.
before that, he was head of programmes and partnerships at temasek foundation where he spearheaded their covid-19 community projects, such as the distributions of masks and hand sanitiser.
ler has also held various roles in the singapore navy, the prime minister's office, and the ministry of home affairs singapore.
he has more than 18 years of experience in business operations and strategy.
ler said: "we will continue to deliver relevant and high-quality content while increasing our offerings.
audiences can look forward to more diverse content from the region, including those in chinese.
"meanwhile, chang said the board expresses its thanks and appreciation to ler for accepting the role at asiaone.  "
his significant public and private sector experience will be invaluable as we continue to expand and grow in asia.
we look forward to his leadership in steering asiaone to its future milestones of success," he added.
chan cheow pong, head of media strategy at singapore press holdings (sph) and board director of asiaone, added that it is delighted to welcome ler as the new ceo of asiaone.
"ler's strong leadership qualities will help chart a new course for asiaone towards excellence in digital media.
with his background in digital outreach and community building, he will further strengthen asiaone and its brand in the exciting era ahead," chan said.
asiaone was founded in 1995 by sph and focuses on social news and trending topics in singapore, malaysia and the region.
mm2 asia acquired 51% equity interest in 2018, and asiaone is now operated as a joint venture between mm2 asia and sph invest, a wholly-owned subsidiary of sph.
last year, asiaone refreshed its logo along with its website, evolving the iconic yellow to a zestier orange colour.
asiaone said previously that it looks to reflect how far it has come in the past year while retaining elements of the "off-centre, on trend" dna of the publication.
related articles:asiaone online names new ceo as mm2 completes takeover of 51% equity interest stakemm2 asia and sph to form jv company under asiaone brandasiaone switches up logo look and website design for 25th anniversaryasiaone treats 'newstritional disorder' with ai-driven news curation
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62,276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
more details will be announced on sunday night.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fueled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones — including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans — in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells.
"but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
jh/st/an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing • china has accused the group of seven (g-7) of "political manipulation" after it criticised beijing over its human rights record in xinjiang and hong kong.
in a communique after their summit, g-7 leaders slammed china over abuses against minorities in xinjiang and pro-democracy activists in hong kong, while united states president joe biden called for beijing to "start acting more responsibly in terms of international norms on human rights".
the chinese embassy in britain responded angrily yesterday, and accused the g-7 of "interfering".
"the g-7 takes advantage of xinjiang-related issues to engage in political manipulation and interfere in china's internal affairs, which we firmly oppose," an embassy spokesman said in a statement.
it also accused the g-7 of "lies, rumours and baseless accusations".
human rights groups have criticised china's human rights record in the treatment of uighurs, a muslim ethnic minority in xinjiang.
china has denied allegations that it is waging "genocide" by forcing uighurs and people from other ethnic-turkic minorities into internment camps in xinjiang.
at the summit, leaders of the seven wealthy nations announced a number of pledges on covid-19 vaccinations, climate change, rights and trade.
they also called for a new investigation in china into the origins of covid-19 prompting a response from the chinese embassy saying the work needs to be done in a "scientific, objective and fair manner", without agreeing to a new probe.
"the current epidemic is still raging around the world, and the traceability work should be carried out by global scientists and should not be politicised," the embassy said.
the coronavirus was first reported in central china in late 2019, and the world health organisation sent a team of international experts in january to probe its origins.
but their long-delayed report published in march drew no firm conclusions, and the investigation has since faced criticism for lacking transparency and access.
the g-7 also announced a new infrastructure fund that mr biden said would be "much more equitable" than china's belt and road initiative.
the chinese embassy said in response that the "accusations against china on economic and trade issues in the communique are inconsistent with the facts and are unreasonable".
agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
anger against the italian brand in chinaauthordatecategoryhong kong — hong kong singer karen mok suffered a backlash in china because of an outfit she wore in a new music video.
she has since apologised for her actions.
over the weekend, the 51-year-old singer held her karen mok the ultimate grand slam show concert in hong kong.
last week, mok launched her latest album, the voyage, which contained woman for all seasons, a reissue of her 2001 song of the same name.
mok was seen wearing a bathrobe from the italian luxury brand dolce & gabbana (d&g) in the music video for the new song.
she also used the photo of her in the robe as her profile picture on weibo, the chinese micro-blogging site.
this caused a backlash in china, where many had been angered by a 2018 d&g campaign they viewed as culturally insensitive.
karen mok removed photos of her wearing the outfit from her socials and all platforms.
picture: instagramsome chinese netizens demanded to know why the singer was promoting the brand while others even called for a boycott of mok.
on saturday (june 12), the topic trended on weibo for several hours.
the singer has since removed photos of her wearing the dolce & gabbana outfit from her social media accounts and the music video from all platforms, reported the straits times.
mok's agency and designer, who were involved in the choice of the outfit, have also apologised on weibo.
in late 2018, d&g caused an uproar in china when footage from its advertising campaign showed a chinese model in a red d&g dress struggling to eat italian foods such as spaghetti and cannoli pastry with chopsticks.
the issue escalated after screenshots of messages sent from d&g co-founder stefano gabbana's instagram account were leaked, in which he allegedly said negative things about china.
following that incident, several celebrities such as singer karry wang and actress dilraba dilmurat ended their ties with the brand.
born on june 2, 1970, karen joy morris, known popularly as karen mok is a leading asian pop singer and actress with a career spanning three decades.
she was the first female hong kong singer to win the golden melody award and has won it a total of three times.
she has released 17 solo studio albums, starred in over 40 movies, has over 15 million followers on leading chinese social media site weibo and holds the guinness world record for the highest altitude music concert.
/tisgfollow us on social mediasend in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg send in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg
kuala lumpur: marine biologists are investigating a mystery skin disease afflicting whitetip reef sharks in malaysia, with some early reports suggesting rising sea temperatures could be to blame.
named for the distinctive white tips on their fins, whitetip reef sharks are typically found resting in schools around reefs in the day and are a popular attraction for divers.
they become active at night to hunt for small fish and other animals.
pictures of one of the sharks with what appeared to be spots and lesions on its head went viral on social media in april after being taken by an underwater photographer off sabah state on borneo island.
soon after, divers at sipadan island, a famed diving destination nearby, and a team of experts from the state's university and government and conservation groups began seeing the skin disease in every group of sharks they encountered.
attempting to diagnose what could be causing the illness, the team found the sea surface temperature at sipadan had risen to 29.
5 degrees celsius in may, a degree higher than in 1985.
"we can almost certainly pin the warming ocean as having a role in what we are seeing with the sickly sharks in sipadan," said davies austin spiji, a senior marine biologist with non-profit conservation group reef guardian, ruling out human factors as sipadan is a marine protected area where fishing is strictly prohibited, and there are no settlements or industries nearby.
the reported sightings coincide with reports of coral bleaching in the area, according to mohamed shariff mohamed din, a professor in aquatic veterinary studies with universiti putra malaysia.
"we cannot ignore that changes are happening there due to higher temperatures," mohamed shariff said.
a full scientific study is yet to be done, however.
in may, the research team tried but failed to capture some of the sharks to secure samples for testing, said mabel manjaji-matsumoto, a senior lecturer with the borneo marine research institute of universiti malaysia sabah.
"if we can get shark specimens, we will surely at least be able to find out the pathogenic cause of the lesions," manjaji-matsumoto said, adding that the team plans to make another attempt in july.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
primary 1 to 3 students will stay home for one week when term 3 begins on jun 28 while secondary 1 to 2 students will have lessons from home for the first three days.
singapore: all primary 1 to 3 students will continue with full home-based learning for the first week of term 3 from jun 28, the ministry of education (moe) announced on monday (jun 14).
secondary 1 and 2 students will also be on home-based learning for three days, until jun 30, and will return to school from jul 1, the education ministry said in a press release.
primary 4 to 6 and secondary 3 to 5 students, as well as all junior college and millennia institute students will return to school from jun 28, the press release read.
following that, all students from all levels will return to school from jul 6, which is a tuesday.
monday, jul 5 is youth day, a school holiday.
these arrangements have been made to "ease into full resumption of school" when term 3 begins on jun 28, moe said in the release.
"due to the increase in covid19 community cases, we made the transition to full home-based learning (hbl) at the end of term 2," wrote education minister chan chun sing on facebook following monday's announcement.
"however, i know for most teachers and students, nothing beats going back to school – having learning take place face-to-face and being able to interact and share experiences with fellow classmates.
"adding that moe is "making good progress" with thestudent vaccination programme, he said one in three students has already received the first dose of the covid-19 vaccine.
"going forward, we must combine vaccination with increased testing and rapid isolation of potential infection clusters to keep our schools open and safe," he wrote in the post.
for students in special education schools, their return to school will be staggered from jun 28 "based on students' needs".
all students will also be back in school from jul 6. moe kindergartens and school-based student care centres will be fully open from jun 28 to "facilitate care arrangements", said moe.
in-person co-curricular activities (ccas) will gradually resume from the second week of term 3, starting with "low-risk activities", said moe in the press release.
"given the need to minimise intermingling of students from different schools in line with the gradual resumption of student activities, the national school games for junior and c divisions as well as the remaining games for a division will be cancelled.
"as for centre-based classes like those for third languages as well as art and music elective programmes, graduating students will resume in-person lessons from the first week of term 3, said moe.
non-graduating students will continue with home-based learning until centre-based classes resume in-person lessons for all students from week 2. institutes of higher learning will "progressively increase" the number of students allowed back on campus for in-person learning.
from jun 21, classes in small groups or consultations that were previously conducted online can resume on campus, said moe in the press release.
essential in-person sessions like labs and practicals can continue to be held on campus, and in-person examinations will also continue with no more than 50 people per venue.
classes and lectures with more than 50 people will continue online, said moe in the release.
all private education institutions are "strongly encouraged" to refer to the measures for schools and institutes of higher learning and decide if they wish to adopt measures that are tighter than those in place at the national level, said moe.
all tuition and enrichment classes for children 18 and below can resume in-person lessons from jun 21.  these centres, as well as sports, arts and culture classes should adhere to the latest guidelines from moe as well as sportsg and the national arts council respectively, the press release read.
"moe strongly urges all parents and students to play their part by continuing to be socially responsible, to minimise the risk of covid-19 infection in our educational institutions.
it is crucial that all students and staff continue to adhere to screening measures and practise good personal hygiene," said the education ministry in the press release.
adding that students and staff should see a doctor and not come to school if they feel unwell, moe noted that parents should keep children at home if there are other household members who have flu-like symptoms.
children can return to school if their household members test negative for covid-19, said moe.
"moe will continue to monitor the situation closely and make adjustments in accordance with the national posture.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all saints home in hougang underwent cleaning and disinfection after a staff member tested positive for covid-19 last saturday (june 12).
the 23-year-old male indian national, who works as a nursing aide, tested positive for the virus during the home's surveillance testing for staff members on june 11. an individual test was done on him the same day, with a negative result for covid-19.
but another test administered on june 12 was positive.
"his ct (cycle threshold) value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result is positive," said the ministry of health (moh) on sunday.
"he is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus rna from a past infection, which is no longer transmissible and infective to others, but we have taken all necessary public health actions.
"a high ct value, typically above 30, suggests that it is not a recent infection and very likely even past the period when a person could infect others.
a positive serology test suggests that the infection is not so recent.
the worker had received his first dose of covid-19 vaccine on march 10 and the second dose on march 31. he is currently warded at the national centre for infectious diseases.
staff members and families of the residents have been notified, said all saints home in a media release on sunday.
staff and residents at the home were tested for the virus.
all test results were negative.
visitation to all nursing homes continues to be suspended till june 20. this follows the discovery of a covid-19 cluster at the mindsville @ napiri adult disability home in early june, a facility in hougang for adults with intellectual disabilities.
as at june 8, there were 32 cases there.
the suspension will reduce the risk of importing covid-19 into such settings, and the risk of cross-transmission, said moh on june 4. visits to homes serving the elderly resumed last year on june 19, after being suspended for almost three months.
that suspension came after a cluster of covid-19 infections emerged at lee ah mooi old age home in thomson, followed by another cluster of 15 cases in acacia home a welfare home in admiralty for the destitute.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
milan: the head of the eu drug regulator's covid-19 task force said on sunday that astrazeneca's coronavirus vaccine had a favourable risk-benefit profile for all age groups and particularly for those aged over 60. italian newspaper la stampa earlier quoted european medicines agency (ema) task force chief marco cavaleri as saying countries should avoid giving the vaccine to people aged over 60 in addition to younger age groups, amid fears over very rare blood clotting and as alternative vaccines become available.
"unfortunately my words have not been interpreted correctly in a recent interview with la stampa," cavaleri said in a statement to reuters.
the astrazeneca shot "maintains a favourable benefit-risk profile in all ages but particularly in the elderly above 60", he said.
the ema's position is that the astrazeneca shot is safe and can be used for all age groups over 18.  however several european union member states have stopped administering it to people below a certain age, usually ranging from 50 to 65, restricting its use to older people, due to very rare cases of blood clotting, mainly among young people.
on sunday evening, la stampa changed the headline on its article online and added a clarification with cavaleri's later comments to its article.
la stampa editor massimo giannini said he had no further comment.
earlier this week the italian government said it would restrict the use of the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, after a teenager who had received the shot died from a rare form of blood clotting.
italian health minister roberto speranza told reporters on sunday that italy will continue to use the astrazeneca vaccine on the over 60s, including those who have not received a first jab.
like many european countries, italy briefly halted astrazeneca inoculations in march over concerns about the rare blood clotting problems.
it resumed them the following month with the recommendation that the product be "preferably" used for people over the age of 60, after the ema said its benefits outweighed any risks.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
treasury yields edged higher monday as investors prepared for a key federal reserve meeting later in the week.
stocks were mixed in thin trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
46% after hitting three-month lows on thursday and notching their biggest weekly slide since december last week.
stocks saw modest gains in japan and a drop in south korea.
trading volumes were light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were little changed after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields trending downward, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped over the weekend after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
oil futures advanced.
for market commentary, follow the mliv blog.
here are some key events to watch this week:these are some of the main moves in markets:
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
(bloomberg) the skyrocketing price of shipping goods across the globe may hit your pocketbook sooner than you think from that cup of coffee you get each morning to the toys you were thinking of buying your kids.
transporting a 40-foot steel container of cargo by sea from shanghai to rotterdam now costs a record us$10,522, a whopping 547 per cent higher than the seasonal average over the last five years, according to drewry shipping.
with upwards of 80 per cent of all goods trade transported by sea, freight-cost surges are threatening to boost the price of everything from toys, furniture and car parts to coffee, sugar and anchovies, compounding concerns in global markets already bracing for accelerating inflation.
"in 40 years in toy retailing i have never known such challenging conditions from the point of view of pricing," gary grant, the founder and executive chairman of the uk toy shop the entertainer, said in a interview.
he has had to stop importing giant teddy bears from china because their retail price would have had to double to add in higher freight costs.
"will this have an impact on retail prices?
my answer has to be yes.
"a confluence of factors soaring demand, a shortage of containers, saturated ports and too few ships and dock workers have contributed to the squeeze on transportation capacity on every freight path.
recent covid outbreaks in asian export hubs like china have made matters worse.
the pain is most acutely felt on longer-distance routes, making shipping from shanghai to rotterdam 67 per cent more expensive than to the us west coast, for instance.
often dismissed as having an insignificant impact on inflation because they were a tiny part of the overall expense, rising shipping costs are now forcing some economists to pay them a bit more attention.
although still seen as a relatively minor input, hsbc holdings estimates that a 205 per cent increase in container shipping costs over the past year could raise euro-area producer prices by as much as 2 per cent.
at the retail level, vendors are faced with three choices: halt trade, raise prices or absorb the cost to pass it on later, all of which would effectively mean more expensive goods, said jordi espin, strategic relations manager at the european shippers' council, a brussels-based trade group that represents about 100,000 retailers, wholesalers and manufacturers.
"these costs are already being passed to consumers," he said.
prices for customers are rising in other ways, too.
for instance, anchovies from peru have largely stopped being imported into europe because with the higher freight costs they're not competitive relative to what's available locally, espin said.
also, european olive growers can no longer afford to export to the us, he said.
meanwhile, shipping bottlenecks and costs are hurting the transport of arabica coffee beans, favoured by starbucks, and robusta beans used to make instant coffee, which are largely sourced from asia.
few industry observers expect container rates to retreat much any time soon.
lars jensen, ceo of consultant vespucci maritime in copenhagen, said on a flexport webinar last week that there's "zero slack in the system.
"closely held french shipping company cma cgm sa, which raked in net income of us$2.
1 billion in the first quarter compared with us$48 million in the year-ago period, indicated recently that it expects "sustained demand for the transportation of consumer goods" to continue throughout the year.
freight costs are more painful for companies that move clunky, low-value items like toys and furniture.
"if they are bulky products it means you can't get very many in the container and that will have a significant impact on the landed price of the goods," said the entertainer's grant.
for some lower-value furniture makers, freight now makes up about 62 per cent of the retail value, according to alan murphy, ceo of consultant sea-intelligence in copenhagen.
"you simply can't survive on this," he said.
"someone is bleeding very hard.
"companies are desperately trying to work around the higher costs.
some have stopped exporting to certain locations while others are looking for goods or raw materials from nearer locations, according to philip damas, founder and operational head of drewry supply chain advisors.
"the longer these extreme shipping freight rates last, the more companies will take structural measures to shorten their supply chains," damas said.
"few companies can absorb a 15 per cent increase in total delivered costs for internationally traded products. "
some firms in europe are resorting to extreme methods, like using truck convoys to get products including automotive parts, bikes and scooters from china, said espin at the european shippers' council.
central bankers have so far been sanguine about the phenomenon, arguing that the rise in consumer prices tied to supply hiccups won't last.
european central bank president christine lagarde said on june 10 that while supply-chain bottlenecks would push up production prices and the headline inflation rate is expected to rise further in the second half of this year, the effect will fade.
several factors explain the relative lack of concern.
shipping costs only constitute a small fraction of the final price of a manufactured good, with economists at goldman sachs group estimating in march when china-europe rates were about half of current levels that internationally they made up less than 1 per cent.
to top that, companies have annual contracts with the container lines, so the prices they've locked in are considerably lower than the headline-grabbing spot rates.
although the latest round of contract negotiations in may reflected the stronger spot market, hsbc trade economist shanella rajanayagam said that "the longer-term rates are much much lower than the spot rates, even if they are feeding through.
"with the end of lockdowns consumer demand is likely to shift to services from goods, but "the risk of course is that higher shipping costs persist especially given ongoing shipping disruption and that producers become more willing to pass these higher costs on to consumers," rajanayagam said.
while many economists note that even a full pass-through of higher shipping fares to consumers will have a marginal effect on headline inflation, volker wieland, a professor of economics at the goethe university in frankfurt and a member of the german government's council of economic advisers, warns that they might not be sufficiently factored in.
"even if the order of magnitude is smaller than estimated, the dynamic builds over a year and has significant effects," he said.
"that means there's a danger we're underestimating the impact.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the rolls-royce ghost extended is a masterpiece of engineering with its impressive power, immense comfort, and innovative technology providing you with a luxurious experience unlike any other.
when the original ghost debuted in 2009, it had a mixed reception.
some argued that it was not a proper rolls royce, conceived as the "baby version" of the phantom.
however, the model soon attracted a loyal customer base, and has gone on to become rolls-royce's most successful model in the marque's 116-year history.
wanting to raise the bar and meet the demands of their customers, this new second generation ghost was curated with direct feedback from rolls-royce's existing customer base.
the company spared no expense in engineering a car that is dynamic, extremely comfortable and minimalistic at the same time.
what they ended up with, is nothing short of brilliant.
the new ghost extended is completely hand-built from the ground up, using a new proprietary aluminium spaceframe that gave designers the freedom to create a truly bespoke car.
the first thing you'll immediately notice when you approach the car is the sheer size.
the new rolls-royce ghost comes in two variants: the standard model comes in at 5.
5metres long, while this extended version stretches that to 5.
7metres.
to put that into perspective, a regular toyota altis is only 4.
5metres long, thus making the ghost feel like an actual yacht on the road.
even though the ghost extended is ridiculously long, the new 'post opulent' design theme and sharp bow lines give this car a sleek and modern look.
upfront, the spirit of ecstasy sits elegantly on the front bonnet.
a showpiece that symbolises speed with silence, the hood ornament is virtually impossible to steal, retracting into the car as soon as it senses that someone is tampering with it.
the width of the car has also been increased by 30mm.
combined with the angular headlights, this gives the ghost extended an assertive yet beautiful front end.
moving to the sides, a single stroke is used to provide depth to the silhouette of the car.
the car sits on big 21-inch wheels, bearing the rolls-royce logo that always remains upright while the vehicle is in motion, a feature on all modern rolls-royce vehicles.
100 kilograms of acoustic damping materials are used throughout the car, and some are even incorporated into the tyres, ensuring the quietest ride possible.
the roofline slowly tapers off towards the rear, with squarish tail lights that have been modernised to fit the new design profile.
the boot is massive, with a volume of 500 litres.
this means that whatever you're carrying, be it golf bags or luggage, can easily fit in the rear.
like the previous generation, the car has rear suicide doors.
with power-assisted functionality included, it enables passengers to effortlessly open and closes the doors without needing to use any kind of force.
the iconic rolls-royce umbrellas are embedded within each rear door.
these special umbrellas are coated with teflon, and when stowed inside the doors, air can be channelled through to dry them, ready for their next use.
when designing the new ghost extended, rolls-royce envisioned a car that was not only predominantly chauffeur-driven, but a vehicle that also enabled its customers to drive with confidence.
as such, much of the interior is very driver-centric.
instead of going all out with modern technology like most other manufacturers, the designers chose to integrate technology into their signature traditional designs, resulting in a "retro-modern" feel that looks gorgeous.
the gauge cluster is one good example, with digital tachometers placed within analogue metal frames.
most of the buttons in the car are physical too, a welcome sight in an industry where most car features are now toggled via touchscreens.
speaking of touchscreens, the ghost extended does come with a very responsive centre console touchscreen.
an all-new illuminated fascia is also mounted on the passenger side dashboard.
crafted with 152 leds and crafted with more than 90,000 laser-etched dots across the surface, it illuminates while the vehicle is in operation, giving out what the rolls-royce designers call a "post opulent" feel to the cabin.
moving on to the rear, you'll enter a cocoon of lush and very expensive materials.
all of the leather in a rolls-royce are sourced from cattle raised at high altitudes and are subjected to the automotive industry's most exhaustive quality control checks, ensuring that only the best ends up in the cars.
similar to the illuminated fascia at the front, the roof lining is also fitted with rolls-royce's signature starlight headliner.
over 1000 individual leds are hand-woven into the custom roof liner, and can be toggled to give the cabin the ambience of a beautiful night sky.
upon request, rolls-royce can even produce custom star constellations that only appear on your birthday, or shooting stars that cross the cabin at random intervals.
the rear legroom is fantastic, thanks to the extra 170mm of length which starts from behind the b-pillars of the ghost extended.
once seated, two gigantic screens can be deployed from the front seats, allowing rear passengers to enjoy multimedia entertainment such as movies or even satellite television.
the screens also come with hdmi connectivity, allowing passengers to connect things such as laptops or gaming consoles.
also read: rolls-royce creates 'most refined picnic facility on earth'there is one downside to this car; the rear screens are only 720p resolution.
in a world where high-definition screens are commonplace, you can notice a slight difference in quality when browsing content.
however, i'm sure with the seemingly limitless customisation that rolls-royce offers, fitting better screens should be no issue.
the most impressive feature of the cabin by far is the sound system.
a powerful amplifier controls 18 speakers.
additionally, the design of certain elements of the car, such as the door sills and materials used across the cabin, help to create an enclosed resonance audio chamber.
the result?
a cabin with near cinema-grade acoustics.
it is truly an experience unlike any other.
oh, did i mention that each seat in the cabin also comes with heating and ventilation, as well as massage functionality?
of course, the ghost extended has it all.
client feedback asking for near-instant torque led engineers to further develop the rolls-royce 6.
75-litre twin-turbocharged v12 petrol engine.
this new engine profile is unique to the ghost, delivering 563bhp and a whopping 850nm/627lb-ft of torque.
maximum torque is available from just 1600rpm.
this enables the car to accelerate from 0-100km/h in just 4.
8 seconds, a massive feat considering the ghost extended weighs over 2.
5tonnes.
why someone would want to do that in a rolls-royce is beyond me, but the car is able to do it if you so wish.
the satellite-aided 8-speed automatic transmission pre-selects gears based on the behaviour of the driver and its location geographically, ensuring the smoothest ride possible in any condition.
power is delivered effortlessly to all four wheels, with the ghost now being offered with all-wheel drive as well as all-wheel steering.
our resident host jackie had the esteemed opportunity to test drive the new ghost extended.
in his words, he summed up the car as "driving a cloud with wheels".
it has an extremely refined drive, and nothing else comes close.
even though the steering is light, there is still good road feedback while driving.
the two things that surprised him the most were the power delivery and handling.
the ghost extended looks gentle, until he puts his foot down.
obviously, the acceleration is not as brutal as traditional sports cars, but the power does come quickly, and he could overtake other vehicles on the road with ease.
in a car that is as heavy as the ghost extended, it truly is amazing.
handling on the other hand is where the car really shines.
the ghost extended now comes with what rolls-royce dubs the planar suspension system.
this extensive suspension assembly works alongside the flagbearer system, which uses cameras to read the road conditions ahead and prepares the suspension system for any changes.
all of these features enable the car to handle corners with ease.
the team expected the car to have lots of body roll, but it was civilised through the corners.
it grips well to the road, and the suspension system ironed out virtually everything that crossed the ghost's path.
the rolls-royce ghost extended, the ultimate gentlemen's entourage.
of course, with such insane features, this car has to have a ridiculous price tag.
starting at $1.
2 million for the regular ghost and $1.
5 million for the extended variant, it's not a sum most people can pull out of their left pocket at any time.
plus, with the limitless number of options available for each rolls-royce, you'll start to see the price skyrocket.
this example that we tested is on sale for a cool $1.
95 million, and even rolls-royce claims this is still a "base model".
however, if you're a person that spares no expense when it comes to the finer things in life, and you are able to glance past (and afford) the hefty price tag, then this car is a definite must-have.
also read: rolls-royce creates its latest phantom collection of 25 super-luxury carsyou won't get the same stares as other individuals who prance around in flashy ferraris or lamborghinis.
however, those that do stare, know that you're a king.
price:from s$1,418,888**performance:engine: 6750cc, twin-turbocharged v12, petrolpower: 563bhp @ 5000rpmtorque: 850nm/627lb-ft @ 1600rpmfuel consumption:0-100km/h: 4.
8 secondstop speed: 250km/hdrivetrain: 8-speed automatic, all-wheel drivebrakes: disc brakesmeasurements:wheelbase: 5,716mmdimensions (lxwxh): 5,716mm x 2,148mm x 1,571mmfuel tank capacity:boot capacity: 500 litresweight: 2,530kgfeatures:front & rear massage seatsextended leather headlinerilluminated fasciashooting star headlinerrolls royce bespoke audioeffortless doorshead-up displayactive cruise controlpark assistanthigh-beam assistanceapple carplay(features are subject to bespoke customisation)this article was first published in motorist.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
at least 700 people who had visited ion orchard in the past two weeks turned up to get tested for covid-19 at two medical centres yesterday.
about 600 people were tested at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city, while about 100 went to raffles medical centre in shaw centre.
a fullerton health spokesman said: "it was slightly busier than usual, but was well within our testing centre's capacity, and we were able to accommodate smoothly.
"long lines formed outside and inside raffles medical in shaw centre as people waited for their turn to get swabbed from 8.
30 am.
on friday, the ministry of health reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion had tested positive for covid-19.
she is the third worker at ion to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall and offer testing to mall visitors and staff.
most of the people in the line said they were getting tested just to be safe.
others, like housewife madam aparna, 71, said she and her husband wanted to be tested for the safety of the people around them.
"we are doing it more for the others.
"the couple had visited the daiso outlet in ion on tuesday for about 30 minutes.
madam aparna added that they have both been fully vaccinated and feel safe.
ms margie ceitom, 39, a maid who was at shaw centre with her employer, said she did not have any symptoms, but since she and her employer had visited ion on may 27, the two of them decided to get tested.
another man in the line, who wanted to be known only as mr ng, 51, said he could not remember when he visited ion but had received a message from the tracetogether app a few days ago.
he said: "the message said i may have been exposed to a covid-19 case.
"mr ng, who is a manager, added that he did not feel nervous.
he said that the decision to get tested was to be responsible and to make sure he was safe.
mr james quan, 53, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, said the level 8 carpark at ion is being used as a testing site for the mall's staff.
in a letter to tenants dated june 11 and seen by the sunday times, all store staff were told to register for a swab test before 12 pm yesterday using an online link.
in the letter, ion reminded store staff to be punctual for their appointed slot to avoid crowding.
mr quan, who works from home, said staff at his shop were being tested from 4pm yesterday.
he added that this was the weekend before father's day, which falls on june 20, and stores may have been anticipating more sales because shoppers would have planned to buy gifts.
mr quan said he was not worried that his business would be affected, as he has three other outlets, including an online site.
people were still using the ion paterson link to get to other malls or to exit orchard mrt station.
at raffles city shopping centre, ms annie ang, who is in her late 50s, and her friend sharon ho, who is in her 60s, were queuing up to get tested at fullerton health testing centre.
ms ang said: "we arrived here at about 2pm.
.
.
i took only 20 minutes to complete everything.
"the women live near ion and went there to buy food on june 7. ion will be shut for four days from 7am yesterday until 7am on wednesday for cleaning and disinfecting works after moh confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to june 11 are offered free covid-19 testing from yesterday.
staff who worked at the mall from may 28 will also be tested.
• additional reporting by alphonsus chernjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when five-year-old travis wong achieved distinction in the grade 8 violin performance examination conducted by london-based associated board of the royal schools of music (abrsm) in april, his family was surprised.
travis, who turned six last month, picked up the violin when he was three.
he had less than four months to master four pieces of music after his first test, the grade 5 violin performance exam, last december.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement on sunday (june 13).
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till june 15 to help f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms as well as 20 per cent funding of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from monday, some covid-19 restrictions will be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in eateries will be allowed only from june 21, assuming the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being reintroduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march 2020 to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign  boosted  its sales and social media presence, slake is  now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
mirroring esg's sentiment, ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
los angeles actor chris hemsworth wished avengers co-star chris evans, who turned 40 on sunday (june 13), a happy birthday on instagram.
"happy 40th birthday, chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book," he wrote to the actor who played captain america in the marvel movies.
however, the photo he posted was of himself and a different chris actor chris pratt.
the photo appeared to have been taken on the set of the recently wrapped marvel movie thor: love and thunder, in which both hemsworth, 37, and pratt, 41, are reprising their roles as thor and star-lord respectively.
fans lapped up the joke in the comments section, with one saying: "man.
chris has changed over the years.
"others brought up yet another famous chris, saying: "come on.
.
.
.
that's obviously chris pine.
"not a part of the marvel cinematic universe, pine, 40, has appeared in two wonder woman films, which are based on the rival dc comics.
another commenter then added to the confusion by referring to hemsworth's actor brother with: "good one, liam.
"the birthday boy chris has yet to respond.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
eu vice-president maros sefcovic asserts that the northern ireland protocol obliges us to begin imposing restrictions and disruptive checks on sausages and other chilled meats entering northern ireland at the end of this month.
his demand that we "respect the rule of law" on the northern ireland protocol misses the point.
the rule of law means being true to your constitution and your laws.
it means respecting your courts and their judgments.
above all, it means remembering that, in a democracy like ours, all power comes from the people.
this principle is enshrined in the magna carta.
our duty is to follow our constitution, and to listen to, and to act upon, the wishes of our people.
and what do those people say?my constituents in wakefield think it is bonkers that food produced in the uk cannot be sold in northern ireland, which is as much a part of the uk as our town is.
nor do i think that ordinary people, whether in the uk or the eu, have any time for politicians or bureaucrats unable to show enough flexibility or goodwill to resolve this issue amicably.
ordinary citizens in the uk and the eu don't obsess about the northern ireland protocol.
they want the politicians and bureaucrats to get off their high horses and cut a deal.
they cannot understand why an english, scottish or welsh sausage that has been happily munched in northern ireland for decades suddenly requires intrusive checks which frustrate consumer choice and impose excessive costs.
the eu's bureaucratic obsession with creating pointless barriers between england, scotland and wales trading freely with northern ireland has done little except increase the risk of a long-buried conflict erupting again.
humankind is planning trips to mars!
is the eu really telling the world that organising the supply of food between two parts of the same country without unnecessary delay is beyond it?the protocol itself is hardly sacrosanct anyway.
brussels agreed to delay implementing the border checks in the original withdrawal agreement.
there is no reason why our decision to extend the delay should prove problematic.
if implementing the protocol will cause unintended hardship for ordinary people and impede business, why not simply change it?i have no doubt that the people of the united states, our most stalwart ally, will support our cause.
the british and american people are bonded by a common civilisation predicated on democracy, freedom and fairness.
joe biden, speaking at raf mildenhall last week, was clear-sighted in setting out his priorities: "democracies of the world are standing together to tackle the toughest challenges and the issues that matter most to our future. "
he had in mind things long dead stirring in russia, ukraine, and the baltic states, and fears of new conflicts in china and the far east.
yet the eu is choosing to focus on fighting irrelevant battles with its friends such as the uk and switzerland with whom the eu shares so much.
that is bureaucratic blindness at its worst.
to build barriers does not make the eu stronger.
it does not improve choice or increase wealth for eu citizens.
it will merely irritate people, and make the eu an irrelevant laughing stock.
i congratulate the prime minister on concluding the new atlantic charter with president biden.
just like churchill and roosevelt before them, the two leaders have pledged to work together to tackle the greatest challenges of our time, including defending democracy, reaffirming collective security, and building a fair global trading system.
the free world needs a strong and engaged united states.
i celebrate the fact the american president has picked up the mantle of leadership.
i am confident he knows that in defending democracy, he is compelled to support the wishes of a sovereign state against unelected bureaucrats.
it is my hope that our two nations set an example to brussels and the world by concluding an expansive, comprehensive free- trade deal.
by acting together, the united kingdom and the united states can forge a better future.
it is time for us to lead the world guided by our citizen-centric democracy.
in contrast, by holding us to a fanatical interpretation of the northern ireland protocol, brussels achieves nothing.
it merely displays its own citizen-loathing half-baked protectionist ideology.
by imran ahmad khan mp (@imranahmadkhan)  see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
carbis bay, england (reuters, bloomberg) the group of seven (g-7) nations confirmed a promise to deliver at least one billion extra doses of covid-19 vaccines over the next year, even as they laid out plans to tackle any future pandemic.
the vaccine pledge was the most dramatic element of the bloc's effort to work together to bring an end to the covid-19 pandemic spelled out in a joint communique issued at the end of the three-day summit.
but the grouping also cast an eye to the future.
it pledged, among other things, to increase early warning systems and to shorten the cycle for the development of safe and effective vaccines from 300 days to 100. united states president joe biden said the summit had rallied the world's democracies to deliver on the challenges of the age.
"america is back at the table and fully engaged," he told reporters after the summit in south-west england, adding that the north atlantic treaty organisation's mutual defence was a "sacred obligation" and that democracies were in a "contest with autocracies".
on a busy final day, the group of leading economies also agreed to raise contributions to meet an overdue spending pledge of us$100 billion (s$133 billion) a year by rich countries to help poorer ones cut carbon emissions and cope with global warming, but campaigners said firm cash promises were missing.
the leaders had strong words for china and russia.
the g-7 condemned russia for "destabilising behaviour", and called on moscow to pursue hackers carrying out ransomware attacks from its soil.
"we reaffirm our call on russia to stop its destabilising behaviour and malign activities, including its interference in other countries' democratic systems, and to fulfil its international human rights obligations and commitments," the leaders said.
the g-7 cited china explicitly on human rights issues in xinjiang and hong kong, but omitted any mention of beijing in the section on forced labour practices.
the g-7 called "on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang, and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration and the basic law".
still, the coronavirus was clearly the priority during the summit.
the communique said: "total g-7 commitments since the start of the pandemic provide for a total of over two billion vaccine doses, with the commitments since we last met in february 2021, including here in carbis bay, providing for one billion doses over the next year.
"many of the doses will flow through covax, a global vaccine-buying system backed by the world health organisation and gavi, the vaccine alliance.
experts said the plan is a boost to covax, which has so far distributed only 83 million shots worldwide.
covax has struggled to secure deliveries as wealthy nations reserve enough shots to vaccinate their populations several times over.
"it's going to rescue covax from its pretty dire predicament right now, so it's a very significant step," said mr stephen morrison, director of the global health policy centre at the centre for strategic and international studies, a think-tank.
at the same time, some experts said the commitment falls far short of the five billion to six billion doses needed by poorer nations.
the figure of more than two billion doses includes a much wider array of contributions already offered, as well future exports, according to a european official.
so far, the g-7 countries have promised only as many as 700 million truly new doses, funded in part by previously announced aid.
if doses already announced in recent weeks by g-7 and eu nations are included, the tally grows to 870 million doses, as the communique notes.
to reach the 1 billion figure, g-7 officials included pledges made starting back in february.
the biggest batches come from countries that had cornered the market early on for domestic use.
the us and britain account for nearly all the new pledges – after they steered hundreds of millions of doses produced on their soil for their own citizens, while restricting exports for months.
the pledges come as the bloc grapples with another question – whether and how to lift intellectual-property rights protections for the vaccines.
biden threw his weight behind that idea but it has languished after german chancellor angela merkel opposed it.
the communique pledged only to "support manufacturing in low-income countries," but didn't say specifically how.
it noted the "importance of intellectual property" and the "positive impact" of voluntary licensing – both clauses that reflect the view of countries opposed to a waiver.
"we will explore all options to ensure affordable and accessible covid-19 tools for the poorest countries," it said.
despite some lingering resentment, the new doses pledged at the summit are a welcome sign to nations without domestic vaccine production that have been desperately awaiting shots.
the new and existing pledges include:- 500 million pfizer doses pledged by the us, for delivery beginning in august and through 2022, on top of 80 million biden previously announced;- 100 million doses pledged by britain from a mix of manufacturers;- as many as 100 million doses pledged by canada at the summit; and- 100 million doses pledged by the eu at a meeting last month, including 75 million from germany, france and italy – the eu's g-7 members.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia's federal territories of kuala lumpur and putrajaya are expected to reach herd immunity by august earlier than planned as the government said more people were able to receive their jabs with the opening of more vaccination centres (ppv).
as of july 11, the country has vaccinated more than 13 per cent or 4,227,554 of its 32 million population with at least one dose, health minister adham baba said, adding that more than half of the adults in the country have registered for the immunisation programme.
selangor recorded the highest number of people who completed both doses at 170,855 people, followed by sarawak (133,516), kuala lumpur (122,564), perak (121,740) and johor (118,317).
there were no figures on how many people have been vaccinated in putrajaya, malaysia's administrative capital located about an hour's drive south of kuala lumpur.
the federal territory of kl has 1.
8 million people and putrajaya 92,000, according to government estimates.
as the country gradually emerges from the pandemic, the government has begun working on a national recovery plan, which will outline its strategy and the phased easing of restrictions, prime minister muhyiddin yassin was quoted by bernama news agency as saying on sunday (june 13).
the plan, he said, will take into account current statistics and existing policies on containment measures, the economy and vaccination progress and it will be presented to the national security council within the next week.
"some of the key ministers involved have already sat down with me to present the draft.
basically good, but not yet refined.
"it is time we want to set an exit strategy or national recovery plan for us to get out of this problem, but this is a big challenge depending on the cooperation and support of all parties," he said, as quoted by bernama.
mr muhyiddin said the plan could help hospitals manage their capacity.
"we have to help the ministry of health manage (its) healthcare (capacity) to ensure that our healthcare system does not collapse .
.
.
there must be enough hospitals, bed facilities, ventilators and hospital staff," he said.
dr adham had said in june that malaysia would be able to inoculate 80 per cent of its population and reach herd immunity by december.
mr muhyiddin was speaking to reporters after visiting a mobile vaccine truck at a low cost housing project in kuala lumpur.
the mobile vaccination programme is a continuation of a pilot project that took off on june 7 at another low-cost housing estate in the capital city.
the elderly and people with disabilities are given priority in the programme, which was introduced in june with an aim to inoculate 80 per cent of residents in the federal territories by the end of august.
mr muhyiddin said the government will increase the number of mobile vaccine trucks in the federal territories.
separately, senior minister ismail sabri yaakob on sunday said the government could relax the current lockdown restrictions if daily covid-19 cases fall below 4,000 but it would subject to the health ministry advice.
"this does not mean the end of restrictions but perhaps reviewing the rules which can be relaxed a bit and so on.
this is because the impact will only be visible after 14 days because that is the incubation period of the virus," datuk seri ismail sabri was quoted by the star newspaper as saying.
"we pray after 14 days the cases go down; we can review the sop (standard operating procedure) which we think may be a little strict, but i cannot promise because it depends on the advice from the health ministry.
"he was speaking after visiting the army field hospital at sultanah aminah hospital in johor bahru.
he also acknowledged the existence of a national recovery plan, saying that it will be discussed at a special meeting in due course though herd immunity remains a priority.
malaysia reported 5,304 new infections on sunday with 64 new deaths, bringing the cumulative caseload to 657,508 with 3,908 total deaths, according to the health ministry.
selangor recorded the highest number of cases at 1,973, followed by sarawak (544) and kuala lumpur (462).
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                a healthcare worker prepares a dose of the astrazeneca coronavirus disease (covid-19) vaccine during the mass vaccination program for transportations workers at kampung rambutan bus station in jakarta, indonesia, on june 11, 2021.  reutersjakarta, june 13 (reuters/xinhua): indonesia reported on sunday a total 9, 868 covid-19 daily infections, the highest since feb.  22, the indonesian covid-19 task force said.
total infections as of sunday (june 13) are 1, 911, 358. the southeast asian country also reported 149 covid-19 fatalities, taking the total to 52, 879. an additional 4, 655 recovered patients were discharged from hospitals, bringing the total number of recoveries from the pandemic to 1, 745, 091 in the southeast asian country.
the virus has spread to all the country's 34 provinces.
specifically, in the past 24 hours, jakarta recorded 2, 769 new confirmed cases, central java 2, 579, west java 1, 242, yogyakarta 466 and east java 418. no new cases were detected in west sulawesi province.
indonesia has detected the highly infectious delta coronavirus variant in the recent spike in covid-19 cases in kudus district of central java province, the province's governor ganjar pranowo said on sunday.
the governor said that 86.
11 percent or 62 out of a total of 72 samples of recent covid-19 cases in kudus emanated from the delta variant first reported in india.
"the spread of this virus variant is very fast.
three weeks ago covid-19 in kudus affected only three sub-districts but today they are happening in 11 sub-districts," pranowo said.
reuters/xinhua
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                surging
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sunday (june 14) total
                                                                ,
                                                                                                highest
                                                                ,
                                                                                                since feb 22



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
carbis bay, england: leaders of the world's largest economies unveiled an infrastructure plan saturday (jun 12) for the developing world to compete with china's global initiatives, but they were searching for a consensus on how to forcefully call out beijing over human rights abuses.
citing china for its forced labour practices is part of president joe biden's campaign to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing.
but while they agreed to work toward competing against china, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed biden's position, while germany, italy and the european union showed more hesitancy during saturday's first session of the group of seven summit, according to two senior biden administration officials.
the officials who briefed reporters were not authorised to publicly discuss the private meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.
the communique that summarises the meeting's commitments was being written and the contents would not be clear until it was released when the summit ended sunday.
white house officials said late saturday that they believed that china, in some form, could be called out for "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses".
in his first summit as president, biden made a point of carving out one-on-one-time with various leaders, bouncing from french president emmanuel macron to german chancellor angela merkel to italian prime minister mario draghi as well as japan's yoshihide suga and australia's scott morrison, a day after meeting with british prime minister boris johnson as if to personally try to ward off memories of the chaos that his predecessor would often bring to these gatherings.
macron told biden that collaboration was needed on a range of issues and told the american president that "it's great to have a us president part of the club and very willing to cooperate".
relations between the allies had become strained during the four years of donald trump's presidency and his "america first" foreign policy.
merkel, for her part, downplayed differences on china and the nord stream 2 pipeline which would transport natural gas from russia to germany, bypassing ukraine.
"the atmosphere is very cooperative, it is characterised by mutual interest," merkel said.
"there are very good, constructive and very vivid discussions in the sense that one wants to work together.
"white house officials have said biden wants the leaders of the g7 nations — the us, britain, canada, france, germany, japan and italy — to speak in a single voice against forced labour practices targeting china's uyghur muslims and other ethnic minorities.
biden hopes the denunciation will be part of a joint statement to be released sunday when the summit ends, but some european allies are reluctant to split so forcefully with beijing.
china had become one of the more compelling sublots of the wealthy nations' summit, their first since 2019.  last year's gathering was cancelled because of covid-19, and recovery from the pandemic is dominating this year's discussions, with leaders expected to commit to sharing at least 1 billion vaccine shots with struggling countries.
the allies also took the first steps in presenting an infrastructure proposal called "build back better for the world", a name echoing biden's campaign slogan.
the plan calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labour practices.
it's designed to compete with china's trillion-dollar "belt and road initiative" which has launched a network of projects and maritime lanes that snake around large portions of the world, primarily asia and africa.
critics say china's projects often create massive debt and expose nations to undue influence by beijing.
britain also wants the world's democracies to become less reliant on the asian economic giant.
the uk government said saturday's discussions would tackle "how we can shape the global system to deliver for our people in support of our values", including by diversifying supply chains that currently heavily depend on china.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with china as the defining competition for the 21st century.
but there are some signs that europe is willing to impose greater scrutiny.
before biden took office in january, the european commission announced it had come to terms with beijing on a deal meant to provide europe and china with greater access to each other's markets.
the biden administration had hoped to have consultations on the pact.
but the deal has been put on hold, and the european union in march announcedsanctions targeting four chinese officialsinvolved with human rights abuses in xinjiang.
beijing responded with penalties on several members of the european parliament and other europeans critical of the chinese communist party.
biden administration officials see an opportunity to take concrete action to speak out against china's reliance on forced labour as an "affront to human dignity".
while calling out china in the g7 communique would not create any immediate penalties for beijing, one senior administration official said the action would send a message that the leaders were serious about defending human rights and working together to eradicate the use of forced labour.
an estimated 1 million people or more — most of them uyghurs — have been confined in reeducation camps in china's western xinjiang region in recent years, according to researchers.
chinese authorities have been accused of imposing forced labor, systematic forced birth control, torture and separating children from incarcerated parents.
beijing rejects allegations that it is committing crimes.
johnson, the summit host, also welcomed the leaders from "guest nations" south korea, australia and south africa, as well as the head of the united nations, to the summit to "intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations".
the leaders planned to attend a barbecue saturday night, complete with toasted marshmallows, hot buttered rum and a performance by a sea shanty troupe.
india was also invited but its delegation is not attending in person because of the severe coronavirus outbreak in the country.
biden ends the trip wednesday by meeting in geneva with russia's vladimir putin.
the white house announced saturday that they will not hold a joint news conference afterward, which removes the opportunity for comparisons to the availability that followed trump and putin's 2018 helsinki summit, in which trump sided with moscow over his own intelligence agencies.
only biden will address the news media after the meeting.
putin, in an interview with nbc news, said the us-russia relationship had "deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years".
he added that while trump was a "talented" and "colourful" person, biden was a "career man" in politics, which has "some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements" by the us president.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei • thailand is prioritising astrazeneca covid-19 vaccines produced in the country for itself due to the severity of the pandemic there, which has delayed deliveries to taiwan, president tsai ing-wen said.
taiwan is dealing with a spike in domestic infections and only 3 per cent of its 23.
5 million people have received at least one shot of vaccination so far, with millions of doses on order that have yet to arrive.
"the problem is that the goods that were supposed to have arrived in june have not," ms tsai told a taiwanese radio station yesterday.
taiwan has ordered 10 million doses from astrazeneca, which is mainly producing the shots in thailand, she said.
"now thailand's epidemic situation is serious and they are giving priority for vaccines to be used in thailand," ms tsai added.
thailand has reported 189,828 infections, with more than 80 per cent of the new cases and fatalities coming since april.
neither astrazeneca nor thai government officials immediately responded to requests for comment.
taiwan's health minister chen shih-chung told lawmakers on tuesday that orders from astrazeneca would be delayed by a month due to production problems at the firm's thai plant.
taiwan received 1.
24 million astrazeneca doses donated by japan last week, and the united states has pledged 750,000 shots, but no details have been provided on that.
ms tsai said the government has been having "emergency" talks with the us and japan to see what other vaccines they may be able to give.
the president has come under pressure to do more to speed up vaccine deliveries, and yesterday expressed apologies for the infections and deaths.
mr chen told parliament that government-run research centre academia sinica has made good progress on mrna technology and contacted moderna about working with it on vaccines.
moderna did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
taiwan has received just 150,000 moderna doses of more than five million on order.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
jun 13, 2021 10:36 pm phtan abu sayyaf subleader and three of his alleged followers were killed during a joint military and police raid in barangay alat in jolo, sulu, on sunday, june 13. the armed forces of the philippines' western mindanao command identified the group's slain leader as injam yadah, a man notorious for beheadings and kidnappings in mindanao.
he was also linked to cross-border kidnappings in sabah, according to a report from malaysian newspaper the star.
major general william gonzales, commander of joint task force sulu, said yadah had a reputation for being "extremely violent," and beheaded his captives, who included soldiers.
lieutenant colonel wilfredo borgonia, commander of the philippine army's 35th infantry battalion, also said yadah's kidnap victims included foreigners and the estranged wife and daughter of a prominent politician in 2018. aside from yadah, those killed included al-al sawadjaan, the brother of abu sayyaf bomb maker mundi sawadjaan, who was named by the military as the mastermind behind the january 2019 jolo cathedral bombing and the august 2020 twin suicide blasts in jolo.
mundi was not with the group during the raid.
a certain rauf and a still unidentified man were also killed.
soldiers and police were trying to serve an arrest warrant against yadah, his wife jenalyn habibi jairi – known as jhing – and the others at around 1:30 am on sunday, according to a report from the police regional office in the bangsamoro autonomous region in muslim mindanao.
but the group fired at the soldiers and police, prompting the troops to shoot back, said philippine national police chief general guillermo eleazar in a statement.
the troops arrested yadah's wife jhing and took their three children into custody.
gonzales said the troops also seized an m653 carbine rifle, a caliber .
45 pistol, bomb-making materials, ammunition, detonating cords, and a blasting cap.
– rappler.
com
tokyo:     global shares held firm near record highs on monday while u. s.  bond yields flirted with three-month lows as investors expect the federal reserve to stick to its dovish mantra later this week.
japan's nikkei rose 0.
35per cent while msci's broadest index of asia-pacific shares outside japan was down 0.
1per cent.
activity was limited with the region's largest markets china, hong kong and australia closed for a holiday.
globally, equity markets were basking in the prospects of a broadening economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and anticipation of continuity in dovish monetary policy from the u. s.  federal reserve.
the msci all-country world equity index, the u. s.  s&p 500 and the pan-regional stoxx europe 600 index all closed at record highs on friday.
the rally came even as u. s.  inflation data on thursday exceeded market expectations.
"one big factor is that the fed has been saying inflation will be transitory and that it will maintain loose monetary policy," said norihiro fujito, chief investment strategist at mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities.
"but another factor to consider is that markets are simply awash with cash.
"ample funds are finding their way to bonds, where the yield on 10-year u. s.  treasuries stood at 1.
465per cent ahead of the fed's policy meeting this week, having fallen to a three-month low of 1.
428per cent on friday.
"it is becoming painful for bond bears and i bet the 10-year yield will fall to 1.
25per cent or even 1per cent," said akira takei, fund manager at asset management one, noting that u. s.  economic recovery is likely to slow in coming months.
"the u. s.  employment rate was 61per cent before the pandemic.
it has recovered to 58per cent but i expect its recovery to slow.
after the great financial crisis (of 2008), it has never recovered to its pre-crisis levels.
"speculators are also building up long positions in u. s.  debt, with their net long positions in u. s.  bond futures hitting the highest level since october 2017, u. s.  financial watchdog data showed.
many investors expect the fed to repeat its dovish view at its two-day meeting from tuesday.
while some fed board members have said the bank should start discussing tapering its bond buying, most investors think a majority of policymakers still prefer to wait a bit more.
"there will probably be no surprise from the fed this week," said mitsubishi ufj's fujito.
"but in the longer term, there's clear risk of the fed's stimulus becoming excessive.
there is little justification for buying mortgage bonds when housing markets are becoming so hot.
"in the currency market, the euro has lost steam after the european central bank last week showed no willingness to reduce its stimulus either.
the euro traded at us$1.
2111, having fallen to a one-month low of us$1.
2093 on friday.
the yen stood little changed at 109.
70 yen.
the british pound changed hands at us$1.
4113, near the lower end of its trading range over the past month, ahead of british prime minister boris johnson's announcement on monday on whether its planned lifting of coronavirus restrictions can go ahead as scheduled on june 21. hopes of ending the curbs hung in the balance as data showed a further rise in cases of the rapidly spreading delta variant, which was identified first in india.
british tabloid the sun on friday reported johnson is set to delay lockdown lifting to july 19. meantime, oil prices held near multi-year highs on an improved outlook for worldwide fuel demand.
brent crude futures inched up 0.
2per cent to us$72.
85 per barrel, near their highest levels since may 2019. u. s.  west texas intermediate (wti) crude futures added 0.
2per cent to us$71.
05 per barrel, near their highest since october 2018.
(reporting by hideyuki sano; editing by kenneth maxwell)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
421actress lee sun bin has left a supportive comment on lee kwang soo's instagram.
on june 13 kst, sbs aired the last episode of 'running man' to feature lee kwang soo as one of the permanent cast members.
as seen previously, lee kwang soo took to instagram and left a heartfelt message to all his supporters through the years.
under the post, his girlfriend lee sun bin left a series of emojis, applauding and praying for lee kwang soo.
in addition to lee sun bin, other celebrities including code kunst, lim joo hwan, and former sistar member bora left supportive comments and reactions.
code kunst wrote: "i love you hyung", and bora shared: "thank you for giving me the unforgettable joy of running together as one team!!
you're the best!!
"'running man' is a special program for both lee kwang soo and lee sun bin, as the two have acknowledged their love for one another in an episode back in 2016.  in related news, kim jong kook and other cast members shed tears as they exchanged their final words of farewell on today's episode.
a post shared by 이광수 (@masijacoke850714) log in to comment3the "acknowledge their love for each other in 2016 on the program" was just a funny thing.
they werent dating back then lol2 more replies0this episode was a tough one to get through.
goodbye running man's lee kwangsoo.
his character on the show was one of a kind.
it wasn't just about what he did, but how he did it as well.
pure genius.
plus, he was truly blessed by the variety gods.
he had great chemistry with the other rm members, especially the original cast that he spent 3,991 days with.
oh!
i'm going to miss him.
show all comments
 send
published: 11:43am, 13 jun, 2021updated: 11:43am, 13 jun, 2021
by sarah rainsfordbbc news, moscowthe geneva summit between vladimir putin and joe biden on 16 june will not be a friendly encounter.
for a start, russia recently included the us on its official list of "unfriendly states".
both sides describe relations as at rock bottom and neither currently has an ambassador in-country; senior russian officials are under american sanctions for everything from annexing ukraine's crimea to alleged election meddling, and two former us marines are now in russian prisons one serving 16 years accused of espionage.
on top of all that, there's the moment in march when joe biden agreed with an interviewer that vladimir putin was "a killer".
and yet, the two men are set to meet as presidents for the first time, and some in russia see that as an achievement in itself.
"the summit is important in terms of symbolism; it puts russia in the same league as the us, and for putin symbolism is not unimportant," says andrei kortunov, director of the riac think-tank in moscow.
the meeting comes early in mr biden's time in the white house, on his first foreign trip and at his request all bonus points for the kremlin.
it's also a full summit not a brief encounter appended to some other event.
and despite a packed agenda, including meetings at nato headquarters in brussels on monday, there's particular interest in joe biden's final stop on his european trip, his one-on-one on wednesday with vladimir putin.
"putin definitely wants to be equal to the us president.
he wants to be respected on his terms," political analyst lilia shevtsova agrees.
"putin wants to demonstrate macho muscle and to be a member of the club.
"the choice of geneva as a setting harks back to a cold war encounter in 1985: the first summit between ronald reagan and mikhail gorbachev.
but there's little prospect that this week's event will match that either for personal rapport or political thaw.
today's white house says its aim is a "stable" and "predictable" relationship with russia.
but keeping people guessing and wary has been vladimir putin's way ever since his "little green men" entered crimea in 2014 and the peninsula was annexed from ukraine.
it was the start of this slide in russia-us relations.
"a more feasible goal would be to test where each other's 'red lines' lie," ms shevtsova suggests, as well as "an understanding that dialogue is the way back from the abyss".
'if they're not talking, then russia will become more unpredictable," she argues.
this weekend, vladimir putin told state tv there were "issues where we can work together" with the us, starting with new nuclear arms control talks, discussing regional conflicts including syria and libya, and climate change.
"if we can create mechanisms for working on those issues, then i think we can say the summit was not in vain," mr putin argued.
some in russia suggest a truce in the "diplomatic wars" may also be possible: the us has expelled dozens of russian diplomats and shut down two compounds in recent years; now us missions in russia are to be barred from employing locals, meaning dramatic cuts in services including visas.
moscow might allow its ambassador back to washington as a minimum move.
the us will also raise the fate of its prisoners in russia, including paul whelan who was arrested in 2018 and convicted of espionage, which he has always denied.
russia recently renewed its push for a prisoner-swap but its terms have so far been impossible for the us to meet, and a unilateral gesture of generosity by mr putin seems unlikely.
russia's president has gone out of his way lately to underline his view of the west as hostile.
at this month's economic forum in st petersburg, he claimed again that the us wants to "contain" russia's development.
a few days earlier, he had threatened to "knock out the teeth" of any foreign aggressor who wants to "bite" russia, insisting that the world needs to wake-up to the country's restored status and strength.
"clearly he believes the us is an adversary that doesn't wish russia well, and i don't think this vision will change," mr kortunov says.
even so, he argues that russia may be looking to lower the temperature a notch or two.
"as a rational politician, putin would like to reduce the costs and risks associated with this adversarial relationship," mr kortunov believes.
that includes economic sanctions: the latest round restricted the government's capacity to raise funds and new steps could be further reaching, adding more strain to the economy in a key election year.
"the russian public has no appetite for foreign policy 'victories' now as a substitute for addressing burning social and economic problems at home," mr kortunov says.
"whatever putin might want, i don't think he can gain anything [domestically] by escalating.
"what vladimir putin doesn't want, but is braced for, is a lecture on human rights including the case of alexei navalny, russia's opposition politician first poisoned and now in prison.
navalny's political offices and anti-corruption organisation have just been banned as "extremist" by a moscow court, a ruling that could easily have been delayed until after the summit.
instead, the timing seems meant to send a message: that vladimir putin will continue to crush dissent and that is none of america's business.
"biden will do his song his prelude about navalny and human rights; then putin will do his song that the us is the same," ms shevtsova predicts, dryly.
"but the fact this meeting is taking place means that after the human rights 'hors d'oeuvre', they'll move on to the main dish.
and that is: let's do something to lower the tension.
"awkward conversation looms for biden and putinputin: biden will be less impulsive than trumpisrael's new pm bennett vows to unite nationhis pledge comes as his government is voted in, ending benjamin netanyahu's 12-year hold on power.
lockdown easing in england to be delayedg7 leaders promise one billion vaccine doseswhat putin really wants from bidenhow chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race'we make it or we die' video'we make it or we die'netanyahu: a shrewd leader who reshaped israeltech firms use remote monitoring to help honey beeswhat happened when the soviets tried to dig to the centre of the earth?the rebels working with islamic state in central africaformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star.
videoformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star'i lost my father and pregnant wife to covid'football phrases15 sayings from around the worldlockdown easing in england to be delayed1israel's new pm bennett vows to unite nation2queen meets joe biden at windsor castle3what putin really wants from biden4whatsapp launches privacy campaign after backlash5how chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race6china to g7: small groups do not rule the world7swiss voters reject key climate change measures8thousands join protests against catalan pardons9biden gifts johnson custom-made bike at g7 summit10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from today, which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening today will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post yesterday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
cleaners from hong ye group were also linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test — both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases — an 82-year-old singaporean woman — was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for republication.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement yesterday.
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till tomorrow by helping f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13.  the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms, as well as 20 per cent of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from today, some covid-19 restrictions will also be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in at eateries will be allowed only from next monday, provided that the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support, even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being re-introduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year, to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy, so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign boosted its sales and social media presence, slake is now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
"we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
world leaders issue joint statement promising action on vaccines, china and global corporate taxlast modified on sun 13 jun 2021 18.
54 edtas the g7 finishes in cornwall, here are some of the issues they pledged to act on in their carbis bay declaration.
the g7 pledged over the next 12 months to secure a further 1bn vaccine doses either through donating surplus supplies or providing further finance to covax, the un-backed scheme charged with distributing vaccines to low- and middle-income countries.
the main new pledges came from the us, uk and germany.
the communique also set out plans to reduce roadblocks to production in africa and on the controversial issue of enforced temporary waivers of patents said they will support manufacturing in low income countries.
they said they would engage constructively on the issue of intellectual property waivers in discussions at the world trade organization.
the united kingdom's 100m-dose pledge is "entirely new", according to a spokesperson.
the united states has already donated $2bn (£1.
4bn) to covax, according to a white house official.
in february, the biden administration pledged $2bn more.
but that second $2bn will now fund the purchase of the pfizer doses, manufactured in the us, along with $1.
5bn in additional funds, according to the official.
the communique did not set out a detailed country-by-country commitment or a timetable to act.
many of the commitments were not new.
but the eu's 100m-dose commitment was promised during a summit in may, and the us commitment partially replaces earlier promises to fund covax directly.
the issue of intellectual property waivers was fudged.
the g7 called on china to "respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration and the basic law".
the g7 underscored "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, and encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues".
they also called for a "timely, transparent, expert-led and science-based" investigation into the causes of covid, convened by the world health organization and including china.
the g7 also vowed to cooperate with china on issues such as the climate.
in a separate statement the white house said: "the us and our g7 partners remain deeply concerned by the use of all forms of forced labor in global supply chains, including state-sponsored forced labor of vulnerable groups and minorities and supply chains of the agricultural, solar, and garment sectors – the main supply chains of concern in xinjiang.
"the sections on china, a change on what the grouping would have said a few years back, do not contain any commitments beyond cooperation to remove forced labour from supply chains.
as well as discussing measures to tackle covid, g7 leaders said they would "act now to strengthen the global health and health security system to be better prepared for future pandemics".
they pledged to reinforce global surveillance for potentially dangerous diseases.
as well as the joint call for an investigation into the causes of covid, joe biden suggested at his press conference it was time to look again at the theory that it may have originated in a lab.
at his press conference, boris johnson suggested the new health surveillance system could involve creating a new global watchdog with powers to carry out inspections to monitor outbreaks, along the lines of existing systems for controlling chemical weapons.
the leaders agreed that in the event of a future outbreak, g7 nations would act rapidly, with the aim of making vaccines, tests and treatments available within 100 days.
the plans were based on recommendations from the uk's chief scientific adviser, patrick vallance, and melinda french gates, who are part of a pandemic preparedness partnership advising the g7 nations.
as well as speeding up the creation of drugs and treatments, the agreement is aimed at preventing the beggar-my-neighbour policies during the early days of the pandemic, when governments were competing to procure personal protective equipment, driving up prices.
the leaders committed to a "one health" approach in future.
there was progress towards a global deal that will put a 15% floor under the tax paid by the world's largest corporations, and in particular tech firms such as amazon, google and facebook.
biden wanted a 21% minimum tax rate, but was persuaded that when countries such as ireland and cyprus would need to bring up their tax rates from 12.
5%, a 15% rate was more likely to gain widespread agreement.
critics said the g7 had let multinationals off the hook with a rate that failed to prevent tax havens thriving, and could force high-tax countries into a race down to the 15% level.
leaders of the richest seven nations agreed to repudiate the policies of austerity and retrenchment that were implemented in the years after the 2008 banking crash and, in the words of johnson, build back better and in a way that makes society more equal and protects the environment.
there was strong recognition that economies would benefit from stimulus programmes that were larger and longer lasting than seen in a decade.
only the prime minister of italy, mario draghi, a former central bank governor, cautioned that to calm financial markets leaders should signal that they would one day seek to reduce currently high levels of borrowing.
the g7 also agreed to increase the special drawing rights (sdrs) of low-income countries by $100bn.
sdrs are issued by the international monetary fund (imf) to boost the reserves and reduce the borrowing costs of vulnerable countries, allowing them to increase spending on health systems and cover pandemic costs.
the south african president, cyril ramaphosa, said this fell short of the $162bn he had asked the g7 to agree while anti-poverty groups said the g7 had failed to spell out the terms of the sdrs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all visitors who went to the 115 bukit merah view market and food centre between may 25 and june 12 will be offered free covid-19 tests, after four more cases were linked to form a new cluster there.
the ministry of health (moh) on sunday (june 13) said all staff and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 have been quarantined, and will be swabbed during quarantine.
in addition, all staff and tenants who had been working in 116 bukit merah view from may 25 will be tested for covid-19 as well, "to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission", said moh.
members of the public who visited shops at 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 will also be offered free covid-19 testing.
the 115 bukit merah view market and food centre cluster now has six cases, after four cases were linked to it on sunday.
moh said: "our epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
"the ministry urged all visitors to 115 and 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 to monitor their health closely, and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their date of visit.
all 182 stalls in the market and hawker centre have been closed from sunday till tuesday for cleaning, after covid-19 cases were detected there.
the four new cases from the market comprise a 50-year-old man who is a conservancy worker, a 72-year-old man who works at a sundry shop, a 67-year-old woman who works as a food stall vendor, and a 65-year-old male food stall vendor.
all four are close contacts of a 74-year-old man who was fully vaccinated and works at a sundry store in the market.
only the 72-year-old man developed symptoms of covid-19 – he came down with a runny nose on sunday.
the remaining three were asymptomatic.
they were among a total of 10 covid-19 cases in the community reported on sunday.
two are currently unlinked, while the remaining eight covid-19 cases in the community are linked to earlier cases.
five of the linked cases had been quarantined earlier, while the remaining three were detected through surveillance.
a 27-year-old engineer from india who tested positive for covid-19 as part of routine testing was one of the two unlinked cases on sunday.
the engineer, who works for local firm ecoxplore, had been tested for the disease as part of rostered routine testing (rrt) on june 10, and subsequently developed a fever the same day.
moh said that his pooled rrt test result came back positive for the disease on june 11.  an individual test was then administered, which came back positive for infection on june 12.  his serology test result is negative, meaning he did not have a past infection.
the second unlinked case from sunday is a 23-year-old man from india who works as a nursing aide at all saints home in hougang.
he is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for the coronavirus on june 11 as part of the nursing home's surveillance testing for staff.
his pooled test result came back positive for covid-19 that day, and he was administered an individual test on june 11 as well.
the result for this individual test result came back negative for the disease.
but another test on june 12 came back positive for covid-19 infection, said moh, adding: "his ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result is positive. "
the ministry said he is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus from a past infection which are no longer transmissible and infective to others.
the man received his first dose of the covid-19 vaccine on march 10, and the second dose on march 31. of the eight linked cases, one quarantined case was linked to a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at ion orchard mall.
two of the three cases detected through surveillance are household contacts of the ecoxplore engineer.
the other case is linked to a 68-year-old male singaporean who works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia.
the gardener was confirmed to have covid-19 on june 12.  there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of these cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from workers' dormitories were reported.
singapore's total number of covid-19 cases is now at 62,276. read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
denmark midfielder christian eriksen suffered cardiac arrest during a euro 2020 match on saturday, morten boesen, denmark's team doctor, confirmed on sunday.
"he was gone, and we did cardiac resuscitation," boesen said at a news conference.
eriksen is in stable condition at a copenhagen hospital after collapsing late in the first half of denmark's tournament opener against finland.
paramedics and doctors, including boesen, rushed onto the field to treat him.
they administered cpr and used a defibrillator, or aed.
"we got him back after one defib, so that's quite fast," boesen said.
"how close were we [to losing eriksen]?
i don't know," he said.
eriksen was transported to a nearby hospital on a stretcher.
his agent and other officials confirmed saturday night and sunday morning that he was breathing, awake and alert.
he communicated with teammates and coaches less than two hours after being wheeled off the field, and again sunday morning, according to denmark's soccer federation.
denmark head coach kasper hjulmand said eriksen "was concerned about us and, of course, his family.
he said, 'i don't remember much' and 'i'm more concerned about you guys, how are you doing?
'"as of sunday afternoon, eriksen remains in the hospital undergoing testing.
as for the cause of the cardiac arrest, boesen, the team doctor, said: "i'm not a cardiologist, so the details i will leave to the experts at the hospital.
"denmark and finland resumed the match less than two hours after eriksen collapsed.
uefa, the european soccer governing body, said the decision to restart the game had been made by players.
hjulmand, however, said uefa had given his team two options: to complete the game saturday night or sunday afternoon.
"the players couldn't imagine not being able to sleep tonight and then having to get on the bus and come in again tomorrow," hjulmand, the danish coach, said saturday night.
"honestly, it was best to get it over with.
"but at a sunday news conference, he reconsidered.
"looking back, it was the wrong thing to make the decision between the two scenarios to the players in this case," hjulmand said.
"players were in a shock condition – players who didn't really know yet if they had lost their best friend.
and they have to decide between these two things.
"i have a sense that we shouldn't have played.
i know it's difficult.
it's just a feeling i have.
maybe we should have just gone on to the bus and gone home and let's see what the next days would have brought.
"some 20 minutes after the match restarted, finland scored – with its only shot in its first-ever game at a major international tournament – and held on for a 1-0 upset.
denmark's next match, against group b favorite belgium, is scheduled for thursday at 6 p. m.  (noon et) in copenhagen.
in a statement sunday morning, the danish soccer federation said that players and staff were receiving "crisis assistance" and "will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident.
"hjulmand, at his news conference, said: "we will try tomorrow to establish normality as much as is possible.
players have different kinds of shocks and traumas and emotions.
"we will try to use the next couple of days as good as possible.
i will try to get a feeling of the players.
maybe for some, the time is too short to be able to play football again.
"more from yahoo sports:denmark's eriksen given cpr after collapsing at euro 2020unseeded krejcikova wins first grand slam title at french open wetzel: michigan legend bo schembechler nothing but a fraudhaynes: nuggets have been all talk falling into 3-0 hole vs.  sunsit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the new local case is a primary close contact of another coronavirus case and has been self-isolating first published on sat 12 jun 2021 18.
42 edtmelbourne is on track for a further easing of restrictions later in the week after recording one new locally acquired covid case on sunday.
the health department on sunday confirmed the new case is a close contact of an already infected person and has been quarantining throughout their infectious period.
the case is a close contact of a case linked to the arcare mainstone aged care outbreak, however they are not a resident.
some 17,102 victorians were tested in the 24 hours to sunday morning, while 14,390 received a covid-19 vaccine dose at state-run hubs.
on sunday morning, acting premier james merlino said "it is a good thing" that the new case was "already in quarantine", but stressed "we are not over this (outbreak) yet".
merlino was also pressed about a further easing of covid restrictions, but provided no specific details claiming he didn't want to give "a false indication" ahead of public health advice.
"i've got no announcements today.
i know that people are very keen on the answer, and we want to get crowds back to, whether it is afl or netball basketball or whatever sport, and theatre production, we want to get crowds and attendances back to these events and back to where we were just a few short weeks ago," he said.
"my expectation is by later in the week, we will be in a position to announce further easing of restrictions for regional victoria and further easing for metropolitan melbourne," merlino said.
at a press conference later on sunday, victoria's health minister, martin foley, said australia was "nowhere near" ready to discuss reopening its international border.
"other countries are already having that conversation but those countries are at 50, 60, 70% vaccination rates.
we are just over three per cent fully-vaccinated," he said.
"what we need to do is have our focus on firstly keeping the virus at bay through dedicated risk-based quarantine facilities and keeping on top of outbreaks.
"overnight, scott morrison reaffirmed australia's suppression strategy to contain covid-19.
speaking on the sidelines of the g7 summit in the united kingdom, where he is an observer, morrison faced questions about when australians would be able to travel like he had done.
"in australia, we've been in a position where we have been able to suppress the virus and keep it out.
that sadly hasn't been able to be achieved here and across europe and the united states and so their experience has been very very different," the prime minister said.
"we'll continue to take an australian path on this which protects the lives and livelihoods and learn from the experiences of other countries," morrison said.
sunday's new case in victoria comes as authorities work to link saturday's local virus case to the kappa strain outbreak.
saturday's case, a man living in central melbourne with his young family, is a "mystery case" until a connection is found.
testing commander jeroen weimar said he was confident this link would be found but said he was more concerned about undiscovered cases because of low testing rates.
"there may well be more out there," he told reporters on saturday.
he asked victorians to make each other accountable for possible coronavirus symptoms and to encourage each other to get tested.
"call them out in the nicest possible way," he said.
there were just over 15,000 tests on friday and similar numbers the day before.
this is compared to 30,000 to 40,000 daily tests earlier in the outbreak.
there are now 74 active cases in the state, including returned travellers in hotel quarantine.
merlino also welcomed the news that premier daniel andrews will return to work on 28 june as he recovers from fracturing his spine and ribs.
if you can, you must.
let's beat this, victoria.
pic.
twitter.
com/gvzkce5jpsandrews, who tweeted a picture of himself getting vaccinated on sunday, said he had been given the all-clear by doctors to return to work.
"i will happily hand him back the keys, but it is great news," merlino said.
"i am sure i speak for all victorians in that we are really pleased, everyone, every victorian who has had a severe back injury knows how long and painful the recovery is.
"following a two-week lockdown that ended on friday, melburnians are allowed to travel up to 25km from home and meet outside in groups of up to 10.  masks are required indoors and outdoors and hospitality, retail and schools have reopened.
there are more than 3,000 primary close contacts in quarantine as a result of community cases, as well as 122 exposure sites.
additional reporting by australian associated press.
thor's chris hemsworth and guardians of the galaxy's chris pratt reunite in a behind-the-scenes photo posted for a third chris' birthday.
thor the asgardian and the one of the guardians of the galaxy have reunited once again for a special occasion: chris evans' birthday.
thor: love and thunder's chris hemsworth posted a behind-the-scenes photo featuring himself and costar chris pratt, who is returning in the upcoming film as peter quill, also known as star-lord.
in a caption, hemsworth wrote, "happy 40th birthday chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book.
"related: thor 4 set photos reveal 'new asgard,' a viking ship and morea post shared by chris hemsworth (@chrishemsworth)thor and quill met for the first time in avengers: infinity war, when the guardians of the galaxy found the god of thunder floating in space after thanos destroyed the statesman and half of the asgardian refugees aboard the ship.
thor, quill and the rest of the guardians of the galaxy departed from earth in avengers: endgame, leaving earth and new asgard with valkyrie appointed as the settlement's ruler.
taika waititi's upcoming thor: love and thunder wrapped production in late may.
the next instalment in the thor film series will see jane foster return in her first mcu appearance since thor: the dark world.
more importantly, as announced in 2019, foster will take on the mantle of the god of thunder.
related: loki's time-keepers tried to stop the avengers from formingit has been confirmed that the guardians of the galaxy will return in the film and, though plot details have been kept under wraps, will aid the asgardians as they go head to head against the villainous cosmic entity known as gorr the god butcher, played by christian bale.
additionally, several other major names are attached, such as russell crowe, who will play the greek god zeus, as revealed by a leaked audio clip.
actor matt damon, who played a stage version of loki in thor: ragnarok, will return for the fourth thor film, alongside actors sam neill and luke hemsworth, who also appeared in the play recounting the events of thor: the dark world.
photos taken from the set reveal that melissa mccarthy will appear in a play within the film retelling the events of thor: ragnarok, with mccarthy playing hela.
directed by taika waititi, thor: love and thunder stars chris hemsworth as thor, tessa thompson as valkyrie, natalie portman as jane foster, jaimie alexander as lady sif, chris pratt as star-lord, dave bautista as drax, karen gillan as nebula and christian bale as gorr the god butcher.
the film arrives in theaters may 6, 2022. keep reading: thor 4: chris hemsworth and taika waititi wrap filming with bts photosource: instagramnarayan liu (/nəraɪʌn lɪʊ/ in ipa) is a contributing features and news writer, and junior editor at cbr.
from hong kong, currently based in sweden.
nowadays narayan writes about films, tv shows, comic books and video games, or about anything related to the witcher.
he does this while studying language, culture, and communication at linnaeus university.
you can follow him on his blog (narayanliu.
wordpress.
com), on twitter (@narayan_liu) or contact him directly at narayan(dot)liu(at)gmail.
com.
jacinda ardern says subject still feels 'very raw' amid ongoing accusations that film sidelines muslim victims of 2019 massacrelast modified on sun 13 jun 2021 23.
28 edta producer for a controversial hollywood film depicting jacinda ardern's response to the christchurch terror attacks has resigned from the project after criticisms that it sidelined muslim victims.
the premise of the film, they are us, has also been criticised by its proposed subject, new zealand prime minister ardern, who is slated to be played by rose byrne.
ardern said on sunday it felt "very soon and very raw" for new zealand, and that she was not an appropriate focus for a film about the 2019 mosque attacks.
"there are plenty of stories from march 15 that could be told, but i don't consider mine to be one of them," she said.
ardern has reiterated that she has no involvement with the film.
the movie was announced by the hollywood reporter on friday, and billed as an "inspirational story about the young leader's response to the tragic events".
it immediately came under fire for centring on the leadership of a white woman against the backdrop of the mass murder of 51 muslims by a white supremacist.
many muslim new zealanders criticised the move as "exploitative", "insensitive", and "obscene".
a petition to shut down the film's production has gained about 60,000 signatures over the past three days.
on monday, new zealand producer philippa campbell announced that she was resigning from the proposed production.
"i've listened to the concerns raised over recent days and i have heard the strength of people's views.
i now agree that the events of march 15, 2019 are too raw for film at this time and do not wish to be involved with a project that is causing such distress," she said in a statement released to media.
"the announcement was focused on film business, and did not take enough account of the political and human context of the story in this country.
it's the complexity of that context i've been reflecting on that has led me to this decision.
"when the film was announced on friday, writer and community advocate guled mire told the guardian that the premise was "completely insensitive".
"the reality is many victims are struggling right now.
they're really still trying to pick up the pieces – financially, everything," he said.
"this tapped into that vulnerability to make the most out of the situation.
"the film will be directed and written by new zealander andrew niccol, who wrote and directed gattaca​.
niccol has not yet commented on the response to the film's announcement.
the guardian has contacted the associated production companies for comment.
the battle for the title of best chris rages on in hollywood as chris evans gets trolled on his 40th birthday by chris hemsworth.
"happy 40th birthday chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book," hemsworth shared via instagram with a photo of himself alongside chris pratt.
fans couldn't help but get in on the fun in the comments, with a particularly popular one adding another chris to the mix.
"that's not chris evans, it's chris pine.
"the confusion between marvel stars evans and pratt began in january when the latter's father-in-law arnold schwarzenegger mistakenly referred to him as the former.
pratt married the terminator star's eldest daughter katherine in 2019.
"hello, chris .
.
.
evans, oh not chris evans, sorry, i'm going to screw up this whole thing right from the beginning, chris pratt," schwarzenegger said during an ig charity live event hosted by pratt.
he added, "i didn't look at the cue cards the right way.
sorry about that.
i should know your name, i should know your name.
that's for sure.
you're my favorite son-in-law"mark ruffalo also celebrated evans' milestone birthday though with much less fanfare.
"sending all the virtual hugs to you on your birthday, brother!
two can play the 'no phones on set' game, @chrisevans.
"related content:
on june 13, sbs's "running man" aired their final race with lee kwang soo.
back in april, lee kwang soo announced that he was stepping down from the show after eleven years due to persisting issues with the ankle injury he sustained last year.
in the june 13 episode, lee kwang soo met with the production staff ahead of time to create a race full of memories to share with the other members.
he said, "first, i want to go to the place where we first started filming.
we also went to the han river a lot on the show, and the weather is nice these days.
of the things i want to eat, i have fond memories of the chicken and kalguksu i had when we filmed at my house.
if possible, i also want to eat grilled pork belly.
it would also be nice to go to the lp bar again.
"he added, "personally, i want it to feel like normal.
that's my honest feeling.
"just as lee kwang soo wished, the race opened at the same location where "running man" had started filming eleven years ago.
ji suk jin said, "even the staff members are sad for kwang soo's final recording.
let's talk about him a lot today. "
but lee kwang soo quipped, "you didn't say anything while we weren't recording, but as soon as the cameras turned on, you came out with that line ready.
"hilariously, the production staff sentenced lee kwang soo to 1050 years in prison after reviewing all the actions he had committed during the past eleven years of filming "running man. "
the "race" this episode was about the other members helping him to commute and reduce his sentence.
after lee kwang soo had changed into his prison clothes and the cast were on their way to their next mission, yoo jae suk said jokingly, "you should rethink your decision.
if you suddenly said right now, 'i'm sorry!
', then the viewers would understand.
they'd be like, 'that rascal,' and laugh, and move on. "
haha asked lee kwang soo what he would do on mondays now that he wouldn't film "running man," and yoo jae suk said, "he'll just lie there.
"one of the missions featured the other cast members answering questions about lee kwang soo, which ji suk jin, haha, and jun so min failed.
however, yoo jae suk moved lee kwang soo by getting the name of lee kwang soo's father correct.
song ji hyo and kim jong kook also got their answers correct and the sentence was reduced by 120 years.
in the final mission, lee kwang soo succeeded on his first try and reduced his sentence to zero.
at the end, the cast members and lee kwang soo wrote letters to each other.
ji suk jin wrote, "it's been eleven years since i first met you.
at first, i only knew you from tv as that tall kid, but now you're a younger brother whom i'll always be with.
even though it wasn't much when we first started it, it somehow became a meaningful moment for me.
i was happy every time we did the 'pil!
chok!
cross!'
together.
let's go together always, even if it isn't on 'running man.
'"yoo jae suk said, "it's been eleven years since we started 'running man' together.
you've been through a lot and worked hard during that time.
i'm not sure who i'll keep interrupting and piggybacking now, but i think it will probably be yang se chan or ji suk jin.
it will feel empty without you, but you should do all the things that you wanted to do now without worrying about us.
let's see each other often, and call me when something happens.
thank you, kwang soo.
thanks to you, it was never dull.
"kim jong kook said, "i'm not sure what was so funny now, thinking about all the times we started laughing while just looking at each other.
it felt like we would go on like this forever without changing.
the regret is even stronger because it's kwang soo, with whom i thought i would go until the end.
even though we aren't able to go on with 'running man' together anymore, let's go for the rest of our lives together.
stay healthy.
"haha said, "since i've seen you every week for 11 years, it feels like i'll see you again next week still.
i think that the viewers are so sad about this because they could see that lee kwang soo had always done his best and showed his passion until now.
kwang soo, you worked hard.
who will i tease now?
who will i con now?
who will i talk all night with now?
i'll pray for you to shine wherever you are and achieve all the dreams you want.
"although the atmosphere was a tearful one, song ji hyo's letter prompted laughter when lee kwang soo was unable to decipher her handwriting.
she had written, "when i was annoyed, happy, having a hard time, weighed down, moved, when i was in a strange place or saw something strange.
thanks for spending all these moments of the past 11 years with me.
you worked hard. "
at the end of the recording, she wrote a longer letter that said, "i said this earlier, but i still can't believe that you, who has always been there, won't be there anymore.
i feel like it will all collapse once i realize it, but visit us whenever you're sad.
i love you.
"jun so min said, "i'm grateful that we've known each other for this time that feels long at times and short at others.
thank you for gifting me with memories that i will never forget.
i'll pray for each step you take in future.
we'll keep things going strong!
also, please visit whenever.
we'll be waiting for you. "
yang se chan said, "you worked hard for the past 11 years.
i was really happy spending the past four years with you.
we always call each other after the end of every recording and talked about a lot of things, but now we can't do that.
i'll miss you, and it will feel empty without you.
do everything you want in a world without punishments.
"in his final letter, lee kwang soo said, "the members helped me get to where i am today.
they feel like another family, and i am so, so grateful to them.
i'm sorry.
i'm sorry again.
i wasn't always great in the past eleven years, but i always did my best.
'running man' is a show where everyone without exception does their best and throws their whole bodies into filming.
i ask that people continue to show it more love and interest in future.
thank you.
"at the end, he said to viewers, "i am so happy and thankful for the time we've shared.
"watch "running man": watch now source (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid-19 pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
in its latest look at trends for the sector, the international air transport association (iata) said it doesn't expect world air traffic to resume to its pre-pandemic level before 2023. but over 20 years, air traffic should almost double, from 4.
5 billion passengers in 2019 to 8.
5 billion in 2039. that is, however, a drop of one billion passengers from iata's pre-crisis forecast.
nevertheless that will be good news for aircraft manufacturers, who slowed down production during the crisis as airlines cancelled orders to stay financially afloat.
airbus has already announced it plans to step up the manufacturing cadence of its best-selling a320 single-aisle aircraft and should reach a record level already in 2023. boeing, for its part, forecasts that airlines will need 43,110 new aircraft through 2039, which will result in a near doubling of the global fleet.
asia alone will account for 40 per cent of that demand.
as with the sep11 attacks or the global financial crisis of 2007-2009, "the industry will prove resilient again", darren hulst, vice president of marketing at boeing, said last year.
marc ivaldi, research director at the paris-based school for advanced studies in the social sciences, noted that only 1 per cent of the population currently uses air travel.
"with the simple demographic rise and the fact that people become richer there will be rising demand for air travel and thus for aircraft," he told afp.
if the biggest aircraft fleets are currently in the united states and europe, the biggest increases are expected in asia and the middle east, the consulting firm oliver wyman said in a recent study.
"flight shaming"airbus delivered 19 per cent of its planes to china, more than the united states, and this trend is not expected to change.
in many emerging countries where the middle class is expanding air travel is becoming possible for more and more people.
"among asia's emerging nations, one of the greatest aspirational goals is simply the ability to fly internationally," said the center for aviation (capa).
"it is a sign of social and economic maturity and permits experiences which were unthinkable for their parents.
"it noted that these people were unlikely to share the growing sentiment among some people in the west towards reducing air travel to reduce one's carbon footprint.
"for these new would-be flyers, the whole concept of 'flight shaming' at a grass roots level is grossly alien," said capa.
"consequently, in asia flight shaming is unlikely to gain much traction," it added.
the "flight shaming" or "flygskam" movement took off in sweden in 2018 to challenge the growing popularity of air travel, which had boomed in europe thanks to budget airlines that made weekend getaways across the continent affordable to a wider public.
in 2019, air traffic declined by four percent in sweden but it hit a record across europe, according to the air traffic control body eurocontrol.
ehess's ivaldi believes flight shaming will have little long-term impact.
"someone who makes one flight per year in a plane, do you really believe that they will say that it is too polluting and give it up?"
he said.
but countries like sweden have begun to reintroduce night trains to give travellers greener options to travel.
france, which is boosting its night trains, is also cutting domestic flights when it is possible to make the journey by train in under two and a half hours.
ivaldi believes that to be a largely empty gesture as fast trains have already taken most of the market on such routes.
the air sector has pledged to cut its carbon emissions in half by 2050 from their level in 2005. airlines have an economic incentive to do so, as adopting more fuel efficient planes reduces operating costs.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
brexit ministers always intended to ignore the agreement they signed and blame the eu for the consequences, argues adrian ward.
plus letters from mike pender, steve fildes, chris webster and amin kassam last modified on sun 13 jun 2021 13.
06 edtif you make an agreement with someone, you have to honour it (boris johnson to face pressure from eu on northern ireland, 12 june).
if you unilaterally decide to change the terms, you have broken the agreement and the other party will not trust you to keep your word in future and may penalise you.
but boris johnson and his ministers knew exactly what they were doing in december 2019 to "get brexit done" and never had any intention of sticking to the agreement over northern ireland – get it signed, then just ignore it and blame the eu for all the repercussions.
johnson's political playbook, page one.
adrian wardle bez, france the eu has suggested a temporary food standards agreement that would do away with 80% of the checks required under the northern irish protocol.
however, the uk has ruled out following eu rules even for few years because "it fears this would hinder its trade negotiations elsewhere" (brexit: what is the northern ireland row about?, 9 june).
the uk's stance is illogical and disingenuous.
boris johnson and his ministers have repeatedly promised that the uk's food standards would not be relaxed after brexit and, if anything, would be higher than in the eu.
if this is truly the government's intention, why not make temporary alignment with eu food standards the minimum requirement for foodstuffs going to northern ireland?such an approach would be relatively straightforward to implement, given that the uk's food standards have not changed since brexit.
and it should not impact adversely on trade deals with other countries unless the uk, contrary to its stated policy, wishes to import food from countries with less rigorous standards than in the uk.
mike pendercardiff we should not let the government obscure the northern ireland protocol problems by throwing a dead cat, or in this case a dead pig, on to the table.
it is nothing to do with anything as trivial as sausages, which is what the pm wants the public to believe.
we signed an agreement and now want the eu to break their own rules because they do not, and never did, suit our purpose.
how can we expect 27 countries to compromise their principles to meet ours?
that is plainly absurd.
the rules were clear before we started negotiations, so to now claim not to understand them is either a big lie or incompetence.
the eu has offered a solution: that we align our standards with theirs, which they already do.
result, sausages back on the table.
steve fildesalfrick, worcestershire dominic raab wants the eu to be "less purist, more pragmatic and more flexible" in its approach to the northern ireland protocol.
if brexit fanatics in his party had shown similar pragmatism or flexibility in implementing brexit, then the protocol would never have been necessary.
labour mps too should consider the consequences of their endorsement of tory brexit purism.
chris webster gümligen, switzerland david frost regards the eu stance on the northern ireland protocol as "legal purism".
it seems the tories would prefer "impurism", so that they could have enough wriggle room to interpret the protocol whichever way they want.
amin kassam voorburg, the netherlands have an opinion on anything you've read in the guardian today?
please email us your letter and it will be considered for publication.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore if you find yourself struggling to spell words like receive and successful, you are not alone.
a recent study by edubirdie, a professional essay writing service, revealed that these are among the most commonly misspelt words found in essays submitted to it by students in the united states, britain, canada and australia for editing between 2019 and 2020. the study analysed the grammatical mistakes made by students in their essays, going through more than 500,000 words in total.
it found that spelling mistakes ranked highest among the types of language errors, which include misplaced modifiers and lack of subject-verb agreement.
english language educators see similar patterns here.
mr benjamin wong, a secondary school teacher, has noticed that the word receive is very commonly misspelt as students here tend to switch the positions of the letters i and e. words like accommodate and convenient are also commonly spelt wrongly.
he attributes a regression in the spelling abilities of younger generations, as compared with older ones, to an over-reliance on automatic spelling correction tools in smartphones and word processors like microsoft word.
"many do not feel the need to learn the correct spelling by heart because they can always use the predictive text and autocorrect function in their phones and laptops.
"mr wong adds that texting could play a role in causing mistakes, as many people do not have enough practice spelling out difficult words in full.
"with texting being the most common mode of communication, many text in shorthand.
for example, instead of spelling 'separate' in full, many type 'sep'.
"ms christabel hong, an english tutor, echoes this sentiment but adds that there could be other reasons for misspelling words.
one factor could be mispronunciation.
words like privilege and mischievous, for example, are frequently misspelt because they are often pronounced incorrectly.
ms hong says changes in form may also lead to mistakes converting the verb explain to the noun explanation, for instance, can be confusing as it involves adding and removing letters.
to improve spelling ability, both educators emphasise the need to make a conscious effort to do so.
mr wong says: "i do believe we have to make a concerted and deliberate attempt to correct our spelling errors by committing the correct spelling to memory.
"top 10 misspelt words1.
tomorrow: misspelt as tommorow2.
which: misspelt as wich3.
completely: misspelt as completly4.
receive: misspelt as recieve5.
until: misspelt as untill6.
finally: misspelt as finaly7.
successful: misspelt as succesful8.
beginning: misspelt as begining9.
definitely: misspelt as definately10.
government: misspelt as goverment• source: edubirdie get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
london (reuters) united states president joe biden said on sunday (june 13) china had to be more transparent and allow access to their laboratories so the west could determine whether or not the covid-19 virus was the result of "an experiment gone awry".
"we haven't had access to the laboratories to determine whether or not i've not reached a conclusion because our intelligence community is not certain yet whether or not this was.
.
.
from the market place of a bat interfacing with animals and the environment that caused this covid-19, or whether it was an experiment gone awry in a laboratory," he said.
"it's important to know the answer to that," mr biden told reporters at the conclusion of a group of seven leaders' summit in britain.
the g-7 leaders had called for a transparent, science-based study, including in china, into the origins of covid-19, to be convened by the world health organisation.
mr biden, meanwhile, said western democracies are in a race to compete with autocratic governments.
"we're in a contest, not with china per se.
.
.
with autocrats, autocratic governments around the world, as to whether or not democracies can compete with them in a rapidly changing 21st century," he told reporters.
on china specifically, mr biden said: "i think you're gonna see just straightforward dealing with china.
"as i've told (president) xi jinping myself, i'm not looking for conflict.
where we cooperate, we'll cooperate; where we disagree, i'm going to state this frankly, and we are going to respond to actions that are inconsistent," he said.
italian prime minister mario draghi said the g-7 countries had to be frank about differences between the west and china in its post-summit communique that called out beijing on issues ranging from rights to the origins of the coronavirus.
"it's an autocracy that does not adhere to multilateral rules and does not share the same vision of the world that the democracies have," mr draghi told reporters on sunday after the summit in britain.
"we need to cooperate but we also need to be frank about things that we do not share and do not accept.
the us president said that silence is complicity," draghi said,about the origins of the covid-19 virus, president biden said last month he had ordered aides to find answers to the origin of the virus.
he asked for another update in 90 days.
intelligence agencies in the us are considering two likely scenarios that the virus resulted from a laboratory accident or that it emerged from human contact with an infected animal but they have not come to a conclusion, mr biden said.
a still-classified intelligence report circulated during former president donald trump's administration alleged that three researchers at china's wuhan institute of virology fell so ill in november 2019 that they sought hospital care, us government sources have said.
china has strongly denied any of the three were ill or that the lab was the source of the pandemic.
a who-led research mission on wuhan early this year concluded the sars-cov-2 virus most likely spilled over to humans from animals either directly from a bat or via another mammal, possibly one sold at the huanan seafood and fresh produce market in wuhan, the provincial capital of hubei.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
discover thomson reutersby reuters staff2 min readsydney (reuters) australia's victoria state, which was a coronavirus hotspot until last week, reported two new locally acquired covid-19 cases on monday.
the new infections follow low single-digit numbers over the weekend and pose little threat to the community as the people were already in isolation, health authorities said.
"the two new locally acquired cases are primary close contacts of existing cases, with no community exposure during their infectious period," victoria's health department said.
australia's second most-populous state has recorded 94 cases in its latest wave of covid-19 infections, which triggered a two-week snap lockdown late last month.
victoria emerged from the lockdown on friday as new cases declined, but some physical-distancing rules remain.
the state expects to announce further easing of covid-19 restrictions this week, acting premier james merlino said on sunday, as a strict two-week lockdown was successful in taming the virus.
australia has fared much better than many other developed countries during the pandemic, with more than 22,300 local covid-19 cases and 910 deaths since march 2020, mostly in victorian aged-care homes.
(graphic on global cases and deaths) tmsnrt.
rs/34pvuyisnap lockdowns, internal border controls and tough social-distancing rules have helped it contain prior outbreaks.
reporting by swati pandey; editing by lisa shumakerour standards: the thomson reuters trust principles.
all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there have been reports from numerous countries of animals, including pets, getting infected with covid-19.
last week, an asiatic lion at a zoo in india died from it.
its death prompted the testing of dozens of elephants at a forest reserve in the country.
tigers in india have also been tested.
russia reportedly started vaccinating pets at veterinary clinics with its carnivak-cov vaccine in late may.
the straits times (st) answers some common questions about animals and covid-19.
a: a small number of animals, including pet dogs, mink raccoon dogs and zoo animals such as tigers and lions have tested positive for covid-19 after coming into contact with infected individuals.
two cases of human-to-cat covid-19 transmission in the united kingdom were reported in the journal veterinary research in late april, providing further evidence of such spread.
"one had mild illness and the other severe.
the viral strains in both cats were very similar to human strains," said professor paul tambyah from the nus yong loo lin school of medicine.
covid-19 infections in farmed mink have also been reported in at least 10 countries.
millions of the animals, which are valued for their fur, have been culled to prevent future spillover events to humans.
a: there are very few reports of an animal passing covid-19 back to humans, though there were reports of mink farmers in northern europe infected by strains that moved from humans to mink and back to humans, said prof tambyah.
the vast majority of the millions of sars-cov-2 infections have been human-to-human transmissions and it appears that animal-to-human transmission is extremely rare, he added.
the world organisation for animal health (oie) said that animals do not play a significant role in the covid-19 pandemic, which is being sustained through human-to-human transmission.
a: confirmed cases in cats and dogs are extremely rare and generally result in mild symptoms, said the world small animal veterinary association (wsava) in the united states.
no dog or cat is known to have died from the infection to date, it said.
people with suspected or confirmed covid-19 infection should avoid contact with animals, including pets, livestock and wildlife, said the us centres for disease control and prevention (cdc).
if you suspect your pet has covid-19, you can contact the national parks board's animal and veterinary services.
it conducts biosurveillance and is able to do the right kind of polymerase chain reaction testing for sars-cov-2 in animals, said prof tambyah.
a: no.
prof tambyah said there are no licensed covid-19 vaccines for animals here.
the wsava said there have been no cases in which a dog or a cat has been proven to transmit the virus to people.
there is no need for owners to consider vaccinating their pets against sars-cov-2 at this time, it said.
"as sars-cov-2 infection of dogs and cats most commonly originates from an infected human, the best way to protect a pet is to vaccinate the owners so that they are less likely to infect their pet," it said in a late april statement.
in the us last year, veterinary pharmaceutical firm zoetis started development activities for a vaccine, based on initial concerns about sars-cov-2 in domestic animals.
"if regulatory authorities determine there is a need, we are prepared to act quickly to further develop our covid-19 vaccine for animals," ms christina lood, its senior director of innovation and sustainability communications, told st. a: the exact origins of sars-cov-2 are yet to be determined.
it could be many years before we know for sure.
the common belief so far is that sars-cov-2 likely originated from bats, a known reservoir of coronaviruses, and jumped to humans through an unknown intermediary animal host, like a pangolin.
still, a june 7 report by researchers from china west normal university and oxford university found that more than 47,000 live animals were sold at wuhan wet markets from may 2017 to november 2019, but no pangolins or bats were traded.
there are other hypotheses, including the politically charged theory that sars-cov-2 was leaked from a laboratory in china.
the oie estimates that at least 75 per cent of emerging infectious diseases affecting humans, including ebola, hiv and influenza, have an animal origin.
a: the four wildlife parks here already have strict protocols, such as quarantining new animals, to prevent cross transmission of diseases from humans to animals under their care and vice versa, said a wildlife reserves singapore (wrs) spokesman.
the covid-19 outbreak led to more measures, including the need for staff to wash their hands with soap and water before interacting with an animal, as well as donning face masks and gloves when working with an animal.
they also minimise or avoid direct contact unless required, especially with higher-risk species such as primates and carnivores.
"as added preventive measures, our great apes such as the orangutans and chimpanzees also undergo temperature checks twice a day," said the wrs spokesman.
he said the risk of humans contracting covid-19 from animals is very low.
"in addition, our veterinarians assess that due to the low number of community cases in singapore, coupled with the extra precaution we have taken to care for our animals, the risk of our animals contracting covid-19 is very low," he said.
none of the zoo animals here has been infected with covid-19.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

 
sunday jun 13, 2021 captain america star chris evans on saturday celebrated his 40th birthday.
millions of his fans took to social media to extend birthday wishes to their favorite actor.
evan's co-stars from "avengers" also wished him on his birthday and posted throwback photos with the actor.
chris hemsworth, who played thor in avengers, shared a picture with chris pratt  and wrote a funny caption that read, "happy 40th birthday chris evans.
you'ill always be number 1 in my book.
"his caption was a reference to the first names of the three actors.
jeremy  renner shared a throwback photo with evans and wrote, "happy 40th to you my brother!!!
i mess you. "
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
while she is currently not linked to existing clusters, other cleaners from hong ye group have been linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases an 82-year-old singaporean woman was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
correction note: this story has been edited for clarity.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                man reacts while receiving a dose of a covid-19 vaccine inside a public bus, used as a coronavirus disease vaccination venue, outside the madani hospital in pekanbaru, riau province.
reutersjakarta, june 13 (xinhua): indonesia has detected the highly infectious delta coronavirus variant in the recent spike in covid-19 cases in kudus district of central java province, the province's governor ganjar pranowo said on sunday.
the governor said that 86.
11 perccent or 62 out of a total of 72 samples of recent covid-19 cases in kudus emanated from the delta variant first reported in india.
"the spread of this virus variant is very fast.
"three weeks ago covid-19 in kudus affected only three sub-districts but today they are happening in 11 sub-districts," pranowo said.
"kudus experienced a significant increase in positive cases of covid-19 in a week, jumping more than 30 times from 26 to 929 cases," wiku adisasmito, the national covid-19 task force spokesperson, said recently.
kudus has so far recorded 10, 525 confirmed cases of covid-19 including 7, 322 recoveries and 861 deaths.
health minister budi gunadi sadikin said the delta variant in kudus came from indonesian migrant workers returned from india and seaport activities.
"we have been taking good care of airports and seaports in indonesia," said the minister.
xinhua
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                delta variant
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                confirmed
                                                                ,
                                                                                                kudus district



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
carbis bay, england — leaders of the group of seven wealthy nations staked their claim sunday to leading the world out of the coronavirus pandemic and crisis, pledging more than 1 billion coronavirus vaccine doses to poorer nations, vowing to help developing countries grow while fighting climate change and backing a minimum tax on multinational firms.
at the group's first face-to-face meeting in two years, the leaders dangled promises of support for global health, green energy, infrastructure and education — all to demonstrate that international cooperation is back after the upheavals caused by the pandemic and the unpredictability of former u. s.  president donald trump.
during their three-day summit in southwest england, the g-7 leaders wanted to convey that the club of wealthy democracies — canada, france, germany, italy, japan, the united kingdom and the united states — is a better friend to poorer nations than authoritarian rivals such as china.
"this isn't about imposing our values on the rest of the world," british prime minister boris johnson told reporters at the end of the seaside summit on the rugged cornwall coast.
"what we as the g-7 need to do is demonstrate the benefits of democracy and freedom and human rights to the rest of the world.
"u. s.  president joe biden, who was making his first foreign trip as leader, said it was an "extraordinary, collaborative and productive meeting" that showed "america's back in the business of leading the world alongside nations who share our most deeply held values.
"but health and environmental campaigners were distinctly unimpressed by the details in the leaders' final communique.
"this g-7 summit will live on in infamy," said max lawson, the head of inequality policy at the international aid group oxfam.
"faced with the biggest health emergency in a century and a climate catastrophe that is destroying our planet, they have completely failed to meet the challenges of our times.
"despite johnson's call to "vaccinate the world" by the end of 2022, the promise of 1 billion doses for vaccine-hungry countries — coming both directly and through donations to the international covax program — falls far short of the 11 billion doses the world health organization said is needed to vaccinate at least 70% of the world's population and truly end the pandemic.
half of the billion-dose pledge is coming from the united states and 100 million from britain.
canada said it also would give 100 million doses, and france pledged 60 million.
altogether, the leaders said they pledged 870 million doses "directly over the next year," with further contributions taking the total to the "equivalent of over 1 billion doses.
"former british prime minister gordon brown said the lack of a more ambitious vaccination plan was "an unforgivable moral failure.
"but biden said the leaders were clear that the commitments they made to donate doses wouldn't be the end.
the u. s.  president said getting shots into arms around the world was a "gigantic, logistical effort" and the goal might not be accomplished until 2023. the g-7 also backed a minimum tax of at least 15% on large multinational companies to stop corporations from using tax havens to avoid taxes, a move championed by the united states.
biden also wanted to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing and strongly call out china's "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses.
"the language on china in the g-7 leaders' communique from the meeting was more muted than the united states has used, but biden said he was satisfied.
on china's economic behavior, the group said it would "consult on collective approaches to challenging non-market policies and practices which undermine the fair and transparent operation of the global economy.
"the leaders also said they would promote their values by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms in xinjiang, where beijing is accused of committing serious human rights abuses against the uyghur minority, and in the semi-autonomous city of hong kong.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with the techno-security state as the defining competition of the 21st century.
"the g-7 is not a club hostile to china," french president emmanuel macron said.
"it's an ensemble of democracies that (would) work with china on all world topics that china is ready to work on with us.
"johnson, the summit's host, wanted the three-day meeting to fly the flag for a "global britain," his government's push to give the midsized country, newly detached from the european union, outsized global influence.
yet brexit cast a shadow over that goal during the summit on the coast of southwest england.
european union leaders and biden voiced concerns about problems with new u. k. -eu trade rules that have heightened tensions in northern ireland.
but overall, the mood was positive: the leaders smiled for the cameras on the beach at cliff-fringed carbis bay, a village and resort that became a traffic-clogged fortress for the meeting.
the prime ministers and presidents also mingled with queen elizabeth ii at a royal reception, ate steak and lobster at a beach barbecue and watched an aeronautic display by the royal air force red arrows during their stay by the sea.
america's allies were visibly relieved to have the u. s.  back as an engaged international player after the "america first" policy of the trump administration.
johnson called biden "a breath of fresh air. "
italian premier mario draghi said the president "wanted to rebuild what were the traditional alliances of the united states after the period of trump, during which these alliances were seriously cracked.
"biden flew from the summit in carbis bay to have tea with the queen at windsor castle.
he is scheduled to attend a nato summit in brussels on monday and to hold talks with russian leader vladimir putin in geneva on wednesday.
the g-7 also made ambitious declarations during their meetings about girls' education, preventing future pandemics and financing greener infrastructure globallyon climate change, the "build back better for the world" plan promises to offer financing for infrastructure — "from railways in africa to wind farms in asia" — to help speed up the global shift to renewable energy.
the plan is a response to china's "belt and road" initiative, which has increased beijing's worldwide influence.
all g-7 countries have pledged to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, but many environmentalists say that will be too little, too late.
naturalist david attenborough addressed the leaders by video sunday, warning that humanity is "on the verge of destabilizing the entire planet.
""if that is so, then the decisions we make this decade — in particular the decisions made by the most economically advanced nations — are the most important in human history," the veteran documentary filmmaker said.
as the leaders met behind fences and barbed wire, thousands of environmental protesters gathered throughout the weekend outside the ring of steel to accuse the g-7 of missing a chance to prevent climate catastrophe.
members of the extinction rebellion climate activism group blocked the main road of the town of st.  ives on sunday, banging drums and sitting on the road.
elsewhere, hundreds of surfers and kayakers paddled out to sea to urge better protection for the world's oceans.
"g-7 is all greenwashing," protesters sang during one march.
"we're drowning in promises, now's the time to act.
"___lawless, kirka and hui reported from falmouth, england.
nicole winfield in rome and kirsten grieshaber and frank jordans in berlin contributed.
___follow all ap stories on climate change issues at https://apnews.
com/hub/climate.
the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
newquay, england: us president joe biden said on sunday (jun 13) that "autocrat" vladimir putin was right to say that relations were at their lowest point in years though he suggested that russia might be weaker than it seemed and that moscow had overreached in the middle east.
biden used the g7 summit in the english seaside resort of carbis bay to argue that the world's richest democracies now faced an existential contest with "autocrats" that would define the 21st century.
after attending a nato summit on monday, biden will meet putin on jun 16 in geneva for a meeting that promises to be a combative encounter after disputes over spying, hacking, election meddling, ukraine, belarus and human rights.
biden, who called the former kgb spy a killer in march, cast russia as engaging in unacceptable behaviour on a range of fronts but also pointed to russia's own "dilemmas" its post-soviet economic collapse, what he called overreach in syria and problems with covid-19.
asked why putin, who has served as russia's paramount leader since boris yeltsin resigned in 1999, had not changed despite years of western sanctions, biden quipped: "he's vladimir putin".
"autocrats have enormous power and they don't have to answer to a public and the fact is that it may very well be if i respond in kind, as i will, that it doesn't dissuade him he wants to keep going," biden said of putin.
the two former cold war foes have had a turbulent relationship for years though relations soured after putin sought to rebuild some of the clout lost in the chaotic 1991 soviet collapse and began meddling far beyond russia's borders.
us and other western leaders now see putin and xi jinping's china as their main strategic threats, though the kremlin dismisses as fiction almost all allegations against russia and says the west is gripped by anti-russian hysteria.
the west casts russia as a dictatorial kleptocracy governed by a mercurial elite that has involved itself in irresponsible escapades such as the 2014 annexation of crimea, attempts to meddle in us and european elections, and a series of high-profile espionage and assassination attempts abroad.
russia says putin is democratically elected.
russian "dilemmas"biden, though, depicted russia whose economy is 13 times smaller than the united states as weaker than it might be perceived.
"russia has its own dilemmas, dealing with its economy, dealing with covid-19 and dealing with not only the united states and europe writ large, and in the middle east," he said.
"russia has engaged in activities which we believe are contrary to international norms, but they have also bitten off some real problems, that they're going to have trouble chewing on," biden said.
biden cited syria as a case in point and an area in which the two powers could work together to find "an accommodation".
asked about a russian statement that moscow would be ready to hand over cyber criminals to the united states if washington followed suit, biden said that was a good sign and "progress".
biden said putin was right that relations were at a low.
"he's right it's a low point," biden said.
biden said he had told putin before being elected he would look at whether the russian leader had been involved in trying to interfere with the us election.
"i checked it out, so i had access to all the intelligence, he was engaged in those activities," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the long-running "battle of the chrises" has been re-ignited with a 40th birthday salvo sent by chris hemsworth.
the thor actor gave june 13 birthday greetings to captain america, chris evans, with an instagram photo of the smiling hemsworth alongside a different chris: "guardians of the galaxy" star chris pratt.
"happy 40th birthday chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book," hemsworth wrote.
the photo appears to be a behind-the-scenes shot from the set of "thor: love and thunder" film, in which both hemsworth, 37, and pratt, 41, are both set to reprise their marvel roles.
hemsworth's birthday post re-establishes long-simmering tension over the greatest chris in hollywood, between hemsworth, evans, pratt and "star trek" actor chris pine.
battle of the chrises:a 2017 breakdown of leading men named chrismore:lizzo drunkenly sent a flirty dm to chris evans: see his hilarious responsethe "battle of the chrises" took a new turn in january, when pratt's father-in-law arnold schwarzenegger mistakenly referred to him as evans during an ig charity live event hosted by pratt.
"hello, chris evans, oh not chris evans, sorry, i'm going to screw up this whole thing right from the beginning.
chris pratt," schwarzenegger said.
"i didn't look at the cue cards the right way.
sorry about that.
i should know your name.
that's for sure.
my favorite son-in-law.
"i'm your only son-in-law," said pratt.
chris pratt, katherine schwarzenegger's anniversary: a look at their gushing love for each otherthe battle was seemingly over when hemsworth and pratt gave the last word in 2018 when the duo sat down with usa today.
"they need to stop bringing chris evans into the discussion," said hemsworth.
more:chris hemsworth may be thor, but his son wants to be another hero: 'dad i wanna be superman'"i think at the end of the day, it's a 50/50 tie," said pratt.
"i love america, but we have a captain already.
""his name is chris evans and it just really makes me mad," hemsworth added.
more:anthony mackie, the new captain america, says getting his own movie 'would be everything'
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
a bodyguard in president tsai ing-wen's entourage tried to bring in 9,800 cigarette cartons as he returned from an official trip accompanying tsai to the caribbean.
the president said at the time that she had no idea her security team was involved and ordered an investigation.
the agent, identified as wu tsung-hsien of the national security bureau, received the heaviest sentence of 10 years and four months on corruption and tax evasion charges, according to taipei district court.
wu tried to pass the cigarettes off as cargo from tsai's presidential plane in an effort to smuggle them past customs, authorities said.
it was later discovered that the scam was not a one-off when china airlines released figures showing huge amounts of duty-free cigarettes were routinely purchased during presidential visits.
the defendants "deprived the government of tax revenue, and seriously damaged the nation's image", judge huang pei-chen told a virtual press conference.
the value of duty evaded on the cigarettes amounted to nearly tw$8.
2 million ($273,000), according to the court.
wu's colleague and main accomplice chang heng-chia was sentenced to 10 years and two months while six other ex-agents received jail terms ranging from six years and two months to seven years.
four airline employees implicated in the scandal were handed prison terms ranging from two years to five years and four months.
they can appeal the ruling.
the bureau's internal investigation found that most agents bought a few dozen cartons of cigarettes into the island on the trip -- the majority ordering between 11 and 50 cartons.
around 100 others involved in presidential security who have bought cigarettes into taiwan reached deferred prosecution agreements in 2019 and last year.
taiwan's customs law limits travellers to a maximum of five cartons of cigarettes -- and only one can be tax-free.
aw/axnit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
america's #1 provider in hearing aids — featuring german technology & enhanced speech clarity.
secure your no-risk trial today!foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
we took a look at different incontinence underwear brands and created a list of our top 5 products going into this year.
did your brand make the list?several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
this small company behind it is sparking a potential 20,300% market surge.
click here for details.
moscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
(nytimes) it's probably never been easier to acknowledge that a lot of us work too much and too hard, and should take more time off.
indeed, the very idea of burnout seems to be having a cultural moment.
"if you think you're burned out, you're burned out.
and if you don't think you're burned out, you're burned out," jill lepore wrote recently in the new yorker.
to believe this is one thing, but to act on it is another.
for years, surveys have found that american workers tend not to use all of their vacation days.
and according to nordvpn teams, a provider of virtual private network technology that is important to remote work set-ups, the stay-at-home workforce created by lockdowns and office closures put in more hours on the job than before the pandemic.
your biggest obstacle to getting time off is probably you: it can be hard to give yourself that permission to do nothing when there's just so much to do.
consider, however, that amazon's founder and ceo jeff bezos has said he sets aside "puttering time" every morning before taking any calls or meetings basically carving out a scheduled chunk of do-nothing time.
are you really that much busier than him?the point isn't just that it's nice to goof off every so often it's that it's necessary.
and that's true even if your ultimate goal is doing better work: downtime allows the brain to make new connections and better decisions.
multiple studies have found that sustained mental attention without breaks is depleting, leading to inferior performance and decision-making.
in short, the prefrontal cortex where goal-oriented and executive-function thinking goes on can get worn down, potentially resulting in "decision fatigue".
a variety of research finds that even simple remedies like a walk in nature or a nap can replenish the brain and ultimately improve mental performance.
these findings aren't just limited to academic studies.
in his recent book richer, wiser, happier, veteran financial journalist william green draws on many hours of interviews with highly successful investors, and, as you'd expect, a recurring theme is that these people tend to work hard, and out-think, out-research and out-hustle the crowd.
but a counter-intuitive subtheme also emerges: how seriously his subjects tend to take breaks, time off and make space in their lives for definitive distance from the all-day, everyday 21st century work cycle.
many including mr charlie munger, mr warren buffett's long-time collaborator make a point to carve out time for quiet and contemplation.
for mr munger, that means ignoring up-to-the-second market news and crowd noise and instead exercising extreme patience.
for another one of green's interviewees, ms laura geritz, ceo at rondure global advisors, it means taking time to sit by a stream and journal.
developing "a regular meditation practice", green notes, has become "a mission-critical habit for many successful investors".
this isn't an afterthought or a hobby or a personal wellness tactic, green said.
it's a reflection of the "ruthless pragmatism" that made his subjects successful in the first place in the eternal hunt for an edge, they found their rest ethic.
it's almost a "counter-cultural" move, green said.
"i don't think you have deep thought without structuring your life this way," he said, at a time when everybody is constantly pinged and reacting to short-term stimuli.
the good news is that at least some companies are starting to take breaks seriously.
for starters, some are acknowledging that unlimited paid time off, a popular gesture among employers who have tried to address the issue, doesn't really do the trick, says john fitch, the author with max frenzel of the 2020 book time off.
it can end up feeling like just another responsibility, and nobody wants to be the employee who takes the most days off.
lately, companies including linkedin and roblox have experimented with mandatory vacation for all or most employees in the form of "spring break" periods.
actions like these that emphasise the value of time off represent a "profound" shift, fitch said.
he and frenzel, both tech entrepreneurs, are tinkering with a software tool that would help human resources departments prod workers to take days off.
still, those companies are outliers, and most of us will have to take the initiative on an individual level.
given the natural resistance to downtime that many of us evidently feel, it might make sense to start small find a gateway drug equivalent to taking time off.
or, to use fitch's related metaphor, try micro-dosing breaks.
one obvious place to start?
unplugging.
the dream of a weeks-long "digital detox" may not be practical, but consider the "technology shabbat" strategy taking one day a week off from technology promoted by writer and filmmaker tiffany shlain, most recently in her book 24/6.
for some, the advice to simply unplug or "do nothing" feels like a dead end; you need something to fill that space, or you just end up ruminating about work all over again.
fitch recommends an exercise called "more of, less of" periodically taking a chunk of time to list both what you want more of and less of in your life.
it's a "higher altitude" analysis to pull you out of the day-to-day rut of reacting to other people's stimuli and help you focus on what you need to create, and get rid of, in your life.
similarly, if you add to your routine a simple walk around the block to clear your head, make sure you really clear it.
spending the whole time checking social media and monitoring your step count is not a quality break.
leave your phone behind, and make a point to notice something new and different on every walk.
turning the walk into a game ensures that your mind is engaged with the world rather than brooding about the work you're supposedly taking a break from.
but wait don't such ideas sound kind of like another form of work?
more goal-oriented tasks intended to boost productivity in the long run?
is developing a rest ethic ultimately another job?
perhaps so.
but then again, maybe that's the only language the unhealthily work-obsessed really understand.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published: 10:17pm, 13 jun, 2021updated: 5:11am, 14 jun, 2021
this is the moment a gang mowed down a man twice in a brutal attack.
gang leader david 'porky' clark, 36, was driving a mercedes when he and his crew deliberately tried to run over the victim in ridley street, southwick, sunderland.
as the man tried to flee in a silver hatchback, clark and the driver of a volvo rammed the car and smashed into another parked vehicle.
he was hit twice by the cars and his vehicle rammed a further three times in the shocking attack on april 5, 2020. watch: moment gang repeatedly ran over man in brutal attackmoments later, clark – aided by shaun hewitt, shaun mcgregor and leigh coulson disarmed luke owen, who possessed a machete.
owen was then stabbed with the machete in the middle of the street, leaving him with serious leg injuries and cuts to his face.
earlier on the same evening, clark's girlfriend coulson threatened an occupant on the same street as the attack.
she told the victim he would be "burnt to a crisp" and said a car would be driven through his living room.
a vehicle was reversed into the front door of the address and set on fire later that night.
all five gang members, from sunderland, admitted a string of offences at newcastle crown court in february.
on friday ringleader clark was jailed for 44 months after he admitted assault, dangerous driving and violent disorder.
coulson, 33, pleaded guilty to violent disorder and threats to commit criminal damage by fire and received a 12-month suspended sentence.
hewitt, 29, mcgregor, 32, and owen, 34, all admitted violent disorder and owen also pleaded guilty to possession of an offensive weapon.
hewitt was jailed for one year, mcgregor was jailed for 15 months and owen received an 11-month sentence suspended for 12 months.
detective inspector andy richardson, of northumbria police, said: "the violence that we saw on the streets of southwick that night was appalling and all five defendants should be ashamed of themselves.
"the series of incidents unfolded in a residential area where families watched on in shock – and they will no doubt have been horrified to see this level of offending justyards from their front door.
"clark was at the centre of the disorder and is somebody who has consistently shown a total disregard for the law.
"i am pleased that he is now behind bars and the severity of his crimes reflected in his sentence.
"we will not tolerate violence in our communities and hope this outcome offers reassurance to our communities.
"we are committed to continue tackling serious and organised criminality.
"it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
 share copiedtop headlines â¢ countries should also avoid giving the astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine to people over 60, the head of the eu drug regulator ema's vaccine strategy has been quoted as saying, amid fears over rare blood clotting, and as more alternative vaccines become available.
â¢ marco cavaleri, who noted that incidents with the az vaccine were very rare and that the roll out appeared to be going well in the uk,  told italy's la stampa newspaper that the johnson & johnson jab should be preferentially used for the over 60s, afp reports.
â¢ italy stopped use of the az vaccine for people under the age 60 on saturday.
asked if it would not be better to ban it for all age groups, cavaleri is quoted as saying: "yes, and it is an option that many countries, such as france and germany, are considering in the light of the increased availability of mrna vaccines.
"â¢ germany's health ministry said johnson & johnson must deliver 6.
5 million vaccine doses to the country in july to make up for a shortfall expected in june.
the demand comes after the u. s.  food & drug administration told the company to dispose of millions of doses because of contamination concerns.
â¢ poland will further ease restrictions from sunday as infections drop across the country.
the government announced the new rules on friday cultural institutions like cinemas, theaters, and museums can reopen their food facilities in a limited capacity.
â¢ south korea will exempt some travelers who have received their vaccine shots overseas from its mandatory two-week quarantine starting july 1, health authorities said.
â¢ paris police said three people were detained after officers used tear-gas to disperse hundreds of youths gathered for a street party in defiance of social distancing limits and an 11:00 p. m.  curfew.
the parties have been called 'project x' by organizers.
â¢ the head of the world trade organization said there was a pathway for a global deal to get more vaccines to developing countries, despite a split over whether drug firms should give up their intellectual property rights.
â¢ a cluster of delta-variant covid-19 infections has been detected at an art school in the eastern french city of strasbourg, the regional health authority said on saturday.
the four cases, confirmed as the more contagious variant first detected in india, were found at the haute ecole des arts du rhin, which was closed by authorities on june 10 until further notice.
commuters, some wearing face masks, walk on a platform at moscow metro.
/afp/dimitar dilkoffacross europe russia russia, in particular moscow, is now embroiled in what could be another wave of the virus.
russia on sunday reported 14,723 new covid-19 cases, including 7,704 in moscow, the largest one-day national caseload since february 13. the number of new infections in moscow was the most reported in one day since december 24.  the city's mayor told residents on saturday to stay off work this coming week, if they can, to curb the spread of the virus.
the surge has been blamed in part on a vaccine-reluctant population, with some surveys suggesting that most russians do not want to take sputnik v despite trials and tests proving the vaccine effective and safe.
in a promising sign for the country's vaccination program, the scientist who led the development of sputnik v has tested a nasal spray form of its covid-19 vaccine.
the product is reportedly suitable for children aged 8-12 and could be launched in september.
g7 the g7 countries announced they would provide a billion covid-19 vaccine doses over the next year and work with the private sector, the g20, and other countries to increase the contribution over months to come, according to an almost finalized draft of the communique, seen by reuters.
the g7 said in the draft that the vaccine donations built on exports from domestic production with at least 700 million doses exported, or to be exported, this year, of which at least 50 percent have gone to non-g7 countries.
the group added that it had "a commitment to continue exporting in significant proportions, and the promotion of voluntary licensing and not-for-profit global production, which has so far accounted for 95 percent of the covax supply," the communique said.
the covax facility, backed by the world health organization and the global alliance for vaccines and immunization, aims to secure 2 billion vaccine doses for lower-income countries by the end of 2021. a person in mexico participates in the first in-person lgbt+ pride march.
/afp/ulises ruiz guy henderson, londona maximum 22,500 fans are allowed in wembley stadium as england begin their euro 2020 campaign in north london.
as with all major sporting competitions, teams are tightly bubbled.
and anyone entering the stadium fan, journalist, volunteer, or support staff will need to show proof of full vaccination or a negative lateral flow test.
the uk has one of the most advanced vaccination programs globally, yet the danger, it seems, of going backward in terms of easing restrictions has still not entirely subsided.
reports continue to circulate that prime minister boris johnson will, on monday, announce a delay of up to four weeks for the final easing of most, if not all, legally binding restrictions penciled for june 21.  that could have implications for the largest sporting competition since the start of the pandemic.
wembley will host one of the semi-finals, and then the final itself on july 11. hopes of a fully-packed stadium look increasingly remote.
rahul pathak in madridthousands of supporters of the far-right vox party are expected to match against spain's socialist-led government in madrid on saturday.
officially protesting against the possible pardon of leaders of the catalan separatist movement, the protest is a show of force by various right-wing spanish movements, partly galvanized by their opposition to the government's handling the coronavirus crisis.
joining the vox party are the supporters and politicians from the more moderate popular party.
their leader pablo casado is riding high in the polls right now and he's hoping the protests will increase the pressure on spanish prime minister pedro sanchez.
however, many in casado's party say they attend today's march as they don't want to share a platform with the extremist vox.
from our global colleaguescgtn europe: the backward running champion trying to conquer the italian alpscgtn china: china plans to launch a mars sample-return mission around 2030cgtn america: the roots of migration series cgtn africa: record number of refugees, migrants returned to libya un sign up here to get the covid-19 europe bulletin sent directly to your inbox.
cgtn europe has been providing in-depth coverage of the novel coronavirus story as it has unfolded.
copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3
published: 8:17pm, 13 jun, 2021updated: 8:17pm, 13 jun, 2021
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington • russian president vladimir putin, in an interview with nbc news ahead of his meeting with us president joe biden this week, said relations between the two countries are at their lowest point in years.
mr putin and mr biden will meet in geneva on wednesday.
the white house has said mr biden will bring up ransomware attacks emanating from russia, moscow's aggression against ukraine, the jailing of dissidents and other issues that have been soured the relationship.
"we have a bilateral relationship that has deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years," mr putin said, according to an nbc translation of excerpts of an interview broadcast on friday.
he praised former president donald trump and said mr biden, as a career politician, was "radically different" from mr trump, but also voiced hope that the new us leader will be less impulsive than his predecessor.
"it is my great hope that, yes, there are some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements on behalf of the sitting us president," he said.
"i believe that former us president trump is an extraordinary individual, talented individual.
.
.
he is a colourful individual.
you may like him or not.
but he didn't come from the us establishment," mr putin was quoted as saying.
mr biden plans to raise a range of us complaints, including over purported interference in american elections and hacking by russia, in the summit with mr putin, at the end of the new us president's first foreign trip.
mr putin had openly admitted that in the 2016 vote he supported mr trump, who had voiced admiration for the russian leader and notoriously, at their first summit, appeared to accept his denials of election interference.
asked about mr biden calling him a killer in an interview in march, mr putin said he had heard dozens of such accusations.
"this is not something i worry about in the least," mr putin said.
he added that the term "killer" was part of "macho behaviour" common in hollywood.
such discourse "is part of us political culture where it's considered normal.
by the way, not here, it is not considered normal here", the russian president said.
mr biden, at the start of an eight-day visit to europe this week, said: "we're not seeking conflict with russia.
""we want a stable and predictable relationship.
.
.
but i've been clear: the united states will respond in a robust and meaningful way if the russian government engages in harmful activities.
"mr putin was asked about several russian dissidents whose deaths have been blamed on moscow, including former kgb spy alexander litvinenko who was poisoned in 2006. the russian leader dismissed the question as "verbal indigestion".
he said some of those responsible for the deaths are in prison.
on the issue of recent ransomware attacks that the us has traced to russia, mr putin denied any knowledge of the hackings and called on mr biden to reach an agreement with him on cyberspace, nbc news said.
mr putin also dismissed a report in the washington post last week that russia was preparing to supply iran with an advanced satellite that would enable it to track potential military targets across the middle east.
"it's just fake news.
at the very least, i don't know anything about this kind of thing," mr putin said, according to nbc news.
"it's just nonsense garbage.
"reuters, agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published: 1:45am, 13 jun, 2021updated: 10:13am, 13 jun, 2021
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
while the pinnacle @ duxton is arguably the "poster boy" for million-dollar housing board flats in singapore, such flats are not exclusively located in the central area.
half of singapore's 24 housing board towns are home to million-dollar hdb flats, official hdb data shows.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
(bloomberg) -- treasury yields edged higher monday as investors prepared for a key federal reserve meeting later in the week.
stocks were mixed in thin trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
46% after hitting three-month lows on thursday and notching their biggest weekly slide since december last week.
stocks saw modest gains in japan and a drop in south korea.
trading volumes were light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were little changed after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields trending downward, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped over the weekend after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
oil futures advanced.
for market commentary, follow the mliv blog.
here are some key events to watch this week:nato holds a summit on mondayan eu-u.
s.  summit takes place in brussels on tuesdaydata on u. s.  industrial production, producer prices and retail sales come tuesdaythe federal open market committee rate decision comes on wednesday, with a news conference from jerome powell afteru.
s.  president joe biden and russia's vladimir putin meet wednesday in genevau.
s.  treasury secretary janet yellen testifies before a house panel thursday on the federal budgetrate decisions come from switzerland and norway on thursdaythe bank of japan's monetary policy decision is on fridaythese are some of the main moves in markets:stockss&p 500 futures rose 0.
1% as of 11:50 a. m.  in tokyo.
the benchmark climbed 0.
2% to a record high friday.
japan's topix index gained 0.
3%.
south korea's kospi index fell 0.
1%.
currenciesthe bloomberg dollar spot index was steady.
the euro slid 0.
1% to $1.
2100. the british pound was steady at $1.
4113. the japanese yen gained 0.
1% to 109.
75 per dollar.
bondsthe yield on 10-year treasuries advanced about one basis point to 1.
46%.
commoditieswest texas intermediate crude rose 0.
5% to $71.
25 per barrel.
gold fell 0.
6% to $1,866.
17 an ounce.
more stories like this are available on bloomberg.
comsubscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.
©2021 bloomberg l. p. global shares held firm near record highs on monday while u. s.  bond yields flirted with three-month lows as investors expect the federal reserve to stick to its dovish mantra later this week.
globally, equity markets were basking in the prospects of a broadening economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and anticipation of continuity in dovish monetary policy from the u. s.  federal reserve.
the msci all-country world equity index, the u. s.  s&p 500 and the pan-regional stoxx europe 600 index all closed at record highs on friday.
two americans suspected of helping former nissan chairman carlos ghosn flee japan while he was out on bail go on trial monday in tokyo.
michael taylor, a former green beret, and his son peter taylor are suspected in the houdini-like operation where ghosn hid in a box for music equipment that was loaded onto a private jet that flew him to lebanon, via turkey in december 2019.   unlike the u. s. , lebanon has no extradition treaty with japan.
singer-songwriter david archuleta revealed on saturday that he is part of the lgbtqia+ community, talking about how he's grappled with his sexual identity, in relation to his mormon faith.
"i've been open to myself and my close family for some years now that i am not sure about my own sexuality," the former american idol finalist [.
.
.
]buying a stock is easy, but purchasing the right stock without a proven strategy is incredibly hard.
here are the best robinhood stocks to buy now.
there is also possibility for a broad valuation reset lower for stocks in the months ahead.
few stocks meet my criteria for selection today.
now i want to first look back and then look forward (and expand upon monday's views) in light of the calendar and the near culmination of the first six months of the year, and the launch of my new hedge fund, seabreeze capital partners lp later this month.
four nhl teams have overcome 3-0 deficits in a best-of-seven playoff series, including the 1942 stanley cup champion toronto maple leafs.
the denver nuggets are the 143rd nba team to go down 3-0 in a best-of-seven playoff series and nobody's ever overcome such a daunting deficit to win four straight.
the nuggets say their only aim is to send the series back to phoenix with a win in game 4 sunday night in denver.
(bloomberg) -- staring at a meme stock craze that shows few signs of abating, wall street is still wrestling with how to trade it.
many traders scroll through reddit blogs that cheer on day traders to suss out the next big thing.
others obsessively track stocktwits citations.
there are even firms hiring wallstreetbets veterans to get inside the heads of the people who call themselves apes with diamond hands.
the stakes are high.
meme stocks like amc entertainment holdings inc.  and gamestop corp.  hin this article we discuss the 10 undervalued blue chip stocks hedge funds are piling into.
if you want to skip our detailed analysis of these stocks, go directly to the 5 undervalued blue chip stocks hedge funds are piling into.
the stock volatility of the past few months has illustrated that the market is [.
.
.
]by this time next year, we cannot have passed the milestone five-year anniversary of grenfell with people still living in unsafe homesthe inter milan midfielder stumbled to the turf towards the end of the first half against finland at the parken stadium in copenhagenteenager devonte brown was charged with conspiracy to commit murder over the shooting of black lives matter activistthe social security administration announced that the cost-of-living adjustment (cola), which is an increase in social security benefits to counteract inflation, increased by 1.
3% for 70 million.
.
.
prices of the world's no.
1 crypto on sunday trade sharply higher after digital-asset bull elon musk says tesla would resume allowing transactions at the vehicle-maker's stores when key members of bitcoin infrastructure can confirm that 50% of the energy used to mine for bitcoin is derived from clean energy sources.
(bloomberg) -- after the longest rally in almost a year, the treasury market is ill-positioned for any surprises from the federal reserve next week.
bond investors, who have been abandoning short bets, are anticipating that officials will reaffirm that their ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering the central bank's purchases of treasury and mortgage-backed securities.
any hint that such discussions are in the works could provide a rude a(bloomberg) -- trying to keep up with the frenzied rise of so-called meme stocks might feel a bit like playing a game of whack-a-mole, bewildering analysts and investors alike.
while there's no steadfast definition of what constitutes a meme stock, one common thread across the many names being pitched on social media is a focus on heavily shorted companies.
shares of reddit icon gamestop corp.  jumped as much as 2,500% in january after day traders noticed its short interest had ballooned to record(bloomberg) -- follow @crypto twitter for the latest news.
bitcoin jumped above $39,000 after elon musk said tesla inc.  would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining is done with more clean energy.
the electric-car maker will allow bitcoin transactions again "when there's confirmation of reasonable (~50%) clean energy usage by miners with positive future trend," musk, tesla's chief executive officer, said in a tweet.
his posting was in reply to a report in cointelegraph, which citedthe classic mix of stocks and bonds may be a relic of an age long past.
wages are soaring and jobs opening are at record highs as workers feel empowered to put a price on their dignity.
let's talk about growth stocks.
these are stocks that have shown strong and sustained share price appreciation, sometimes ranging into triple-digit gains over the course of a year or more.
in short, these are stocks that make investors say, "if only i'd bought in when.
.
.
!"
there's no point dwelling on the past.
a savvy investor, aiming to build a growth-oriented portfolio, will set up a profile for a solid growth stock, and look to match it.
the factors to look for: that strong appreciation we menusing technical analysis of the charts of those stocks, and, when appropriate, recent actions and grades from thestreet's quant ratings, we zero in on five names.
while we will not be weighing in with fundamental analysis, we hope this piece will give investors interested in stocks on the way down a good starting point to do further homework on the names.
workhorse group inc.   recently was downgraded to sell with a d rating by thestreet's quant ratings.
green campaigners and anti-poverty groups say cornwall summit failed to address challenges facing the world last modified on sun 13 jun 2021 18.
59 edtboris johnson has sought to defend the deal struck by g7 leaders at the cornwall summit, as green groups and anti-poverty campaigners said the rich nations' club had failed to match the scale of the challenges facing the world.
the final communique contained no early timetable to eradicate coal-fired emissions, offered only 1bn extra coronavirus vaccines for the world's poor over the next 12 months and made no new binding commitments to challenge china's human rights abuses.
campaigners expressed profound disappointment at the failure to attach new cash to the communique's aspirations to end the pandemic, "build back better" and tackle the climate emergency.
oxfam's head of inequality policy, max lawson, said: "never in the history of the g7 has there been a bigger gap between their actions and the needs of the world.
we don't need to wait for history to judge this summit a colossal failure, it is plain for all to see.
"british officials said the task of a g7 summit was to set out a policy roadmap rather than make binding, detailed financial commitments, which are more likely to be made at the g20 or at the un climate change summit in november.
the former uk prime minister gordon brown said the g7's 2021 summit would be remembered "only for a colossal failure to honour boris johnston's promise to vaccinate the world, an unforgivable moral failure when covid is destroying lives at the rate of one-third of a million every month".
he echoed the world health organization's view that the g7 had needed to commit to distribute 11bn vaccines, and not just 1bn.
he said he was also disappointed the group had not supported compulsory patent transfers to boost production in africa.
johnson said at the close of the summit that he hoped it had lived up to the optimistic hopes and predictions.
he knew "the world was looking to us to reject some of the selfishness and the nationalistic approaches that marred the initial early responses to the pandemic, and channel all our economic and scientific might into defeating covid", he said.
he rejected brown's criticisms, saying the g7 had set a target to vaccinate the whole world by the end of the year.
he said of the 1.
5bn vaccines around the world, 500m were the result of the uk government's deal with oxford/astrazeneca.
the shadow foreign secretary, lisa nandy, said: "by every measure, the prime minister's summit has come up short.
no clear plan to vaccinate the world by the end of 2022.  no ambitious commitments to place the world on the path to climate safety.
"this should have been the summit that delivered health, environmental and economic security for people in britain and across the world.
"with less than six months until cop 26, the government must raise the ambition and work constructively with countries across the world to deliver for people in britain and around the world.
"joe biden said the us was back at the table, and that washington might be able to find a further 1bn doses next year.
fighting pandemics "may be a constant project for a long time," the us president said.
the one campaign, however, said the who and other major multilateral bodies had set the g7 clear targets before the summit, which it had not met.
the who called at the weekend for 70% of the global population to be vaccinated by time of the g7's next summit in germany next year.
but one said the money would only "provide enough doses to vaccinate around 200 million people .
.
.
by the end of the year.
by the next g7 summit only 10.
3% of the population in low and medium income countries would be vaccinated by this deal.
"johnson also came under attack over the climate crisis.
green groups said the g7 had agreed "to plan to make a plan".
johnson said the g7 was committed to the net zero emissions target by 2050, and had made significant steps towards the pledge of $100bn a year in climate finance for developing countries first made at the copenhagen summit.
but greenpeace uk's executive director, john sauven, said: "despite the green soundbites, boris johnson has simply reheated old promises and peppered his plan with hypocrisy, rather than taking real action to tackle the climate and nature emergency.
"the us was unable to secure a g7 consensus on china, but instead put out a separate statement on the use of forced labour in xinjiang.
the final communique made reference to keeping the taiwan strait open, the loss of democracy in hong kong and "called on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang".
some g7 leaders, notably germany's angela merkel, cautioned against alienating china at a time when beijing's help is needed to tackle climate change.
biden defended the commitments.
"we are in a contest not with china per se but with autocrats around the world, and whether democracies can compete them in a rapidly changing world," he said.
he called for a further inquiry into the origins of the pandemic, saying "it is important to know if this is due to a trial that went awry in a laboratory.
we have not had access to their laboratories.
"johnson said his official advice had been that it was unlikely the virus had spread from a leak in a chinese lab, but that "anyone sensible would keep an open mind about it".
asked about him being more ideologically in tune with donald trump than biden, johnson said there were ideological similarities between his plans to level up and the democrat's us infrastructure programme.
the summit marked the return of in-person diplomacy after a near two-year hiatus and the departure of trump's chaotic style that effectively brought the g7 to a standstill.
merkel praised biden, saying he had brought new momentum to the g7's efforts to tackle global challenges.
"it's not like the world no longer has any problems because of the election of joe biden as us president," she told reporters.
"but we can work on solutions to those problems with new momentum.
and i think it's very good that we have become more concrete at this g7. "

                    monday, 14 jun 2021
                a man get his temperature and blood pressure readings taken before receiving the sinovac vaccine against the covid-19 coronavirus, during an immunisation session for bus drivers in banda aceh on june 11, 2021.   afpjakarta (the straits times/ann): jakarta governor anies baswedan has warned that the indonesian capital may return to a strict restriction regime as coronavirus cases surged 50 per cent in the past week.
active cases in jakarta rose to 17, 400 cases on sunday (june 13) from 11, 500 on june 6.
"the capital is in a state that needs extra attention.
if the current situation gets out of hand, we would enter an emergency phase, and if that happened, we would have to take drastic steps like we did in september and february.
we do not want that to recur," anies said in a statement on monday morning.
the delta variant, first detected in india, has started to dominate cases in indonesian cities including jakarta and kudus in central java province, a senior government official, who did not want to be named, told the straits times on sunday night.
health ministry spokesman dr siti nadia tarmizi told st that the genome sequencing tests on 34 samples collected from kudus showed that 28 of them were of the delta variant.
she did not elaborate.
bed occupancy rate for isolation wards reserved to treat covid-19 patients also increased to 75 per cent on sunday, from 45 per cent a week ago.
one out of four covid-19 patients in jakarta, however comes from outside the city, mostly the surrounding satellite towns.
anies urged residents to strictly comply with health protocols in order to avoid another round of strict social distancing restrictions.
currently, dining-in in eateries are allowed with limited capacity and non-essential staff are partially required to work from home.
the governor also stressed that the positivity rate the percentage of people who are tested positive in jakarta increased to 17 per cent on sunday, from 9 per cent the previous week.
he also pointed out that the testing rate in jakarta rose to eight times what the world health organisation recommended, from four times in the previous week.
anies ordered all his personnel on sunday night to take stricter measures and step up enforcement of the health protocols on individuals as well as in places.
the straits times/asia news network 
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                delta
                                                                ,
                                                                                                variant



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
singapore: singapore reported 10 new covid-19 cases in the community as of noon on sunday (jun 13), including two unlinked infections.
eight were linked to previous cases, with five already in quarantine and three detected through surveillance, said the ministry of health (moh).
two new clusters were identified, with one involving cases linked to bukit merah view market and food centre.
bukit merah view market clusterfour of the linked community cases worked at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre, which will be closed from jun 13 to jun 15 for deep cleaning and to "break any potential chain of transmission", said moh.
all staff and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 were placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine, said the ministry.
there will also be special testing operations for staff who had been working at 116 bukit merah view from may 25.
"we will also extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and jun 12," said moh.
all visitors to the two locations between those dates were advised to monitor their health closely and minimise social interactions as far as possible for 14 days from the date of their visit, said moh.
they should see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell, it added.
all four cases were placed on quarantine earlier as they were identified as close contacts of case 64132, a 74-year-old worker at a sundry store in the market who was confirmed to have covid-19 on jun 9. the new cases involved a 50-year-old bangladeshi man who is a conservancy worker employed by theng liang lee services (case 64187) and a 72-year-old singaporean man working at a sundry shop (case 64193).
two food stall vendors were also among the cases a 67-year-old singaporean woman (case 64195) and a 65-year-old singaporean man (case 64196).
their infections were detected when they tested positive for covid-19 during quarantine.
all were asymptomatic, except for case 64193.  he developed a runny nose on jun 13 while on quarantine, after his covid-19 result came back positive.
cases 64193, 64195 and 64196 were fully vaccinated.
moh said it was investigating six cases of covid-19 infection among individuals working at the market.
they were the four new cases on sunday, case 64132 and case 64158 an 82 year-old singaporean woman who regularly helped out at a sundry store there.
"our epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location," said moh.
new cluster linked to engineeranother new cluster comprising an unlinked community case and two linked community cases was identified on sunday.
the unlinked case, case 64184, was a 27-year-old indian engineer working at ecoxplore.
he was tested for covid-19 on jun 10 as part of rostered routine testing.
he developed fever that same day.
the man's pooled test result came back positive on jun 11, and an individual test confirmed his infection on jun 12.  his serology test was negative.
the two linked community cases were his household contacts and detected through surveillance.
one was a 19-year-old singaporean teenager working as a warehouse assistant at dhl express (singapore).
she developed a fever, sore throat, cough and runny nose on jun 10 and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic on jun 11, where she received an antigen rapid test (art) and polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive, and her pcr test result also came back positive that same day.
her serology test result was negative.
the other linked case was a 39-year-old woman employed by cleen first services as a cleaner at emerald park condominium.
she developed a fever on jun 11 and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic on jun 12, where she was given an art and a pcr test.
her art result came back positive and she was immediately isolated.
her pcr test result came back positive that same day.
her serology test result was negative.
unlinked case involving nursing aidethe second unlinked community case was a 23-year-old indian nursing aide working at all saints home (hougang), a nursing home for the elderly.
he was asymptomatic, and his infection was detected when he was tested for covid-19 on jun 11 as part of the nursing home's surveillance testing for staff members.
his pooled test result came back positive on jun 11.  an individual test done that same day came back negative on jun 11, but another done on jun 12 came back positive.
"his ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result is positive," said moh.
"he is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus rna from a past infection, which are no longer transmissible and infective to others, but we have taken all necessary public health actions.
"the nursing aide was fully vaccinated.
remaining linked casesa 59-year-old singaporean woman working as a part-time cleaner at crystal lodge was reported as a linked community case.
she was a close contact of case 64135, apromoter at guardian at ion orchard.
the new case was already placed on quarantine on jun 11.  she was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she was tested for covid-19 on jun 12 during quarantine, with the result coming back positive the next day.
her serology test result was pending.
the other linked community case was detected through surveillance.
the 66-year-old singaporean retiree was a family member of case 64183, alandscape gardener at amozonialandscape.
he developed a cough on jun 11 and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner clinic on the same day, where he underwent both an art and pcr test.
his art result was negative, but his pcr test result came back positive on jun 12.  his serology test result was pending.
new locations visited by community casesbukit merah view food centre and market, where the new cluster was identified, and beo crescent market were on sunday added to a list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
mustafa centre, peninsula plaza, an ntuc fairprice supermarket at havelock road and a hair salon at upper serangoon road were also listed.
the full list of new locations is as follows:imported casesthere were also three imported cases, who had been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
two were permanent residents returning from india, and one was a foreign domestic worker who arrived from indonesia.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories.
in all, singapore reported 13 new covid-19 cases on sunday.
one still in critical conditionthirty-one more cases were discharged, bringing the total number of fully recovered to 61,869. there were 130 cases in hospital, with one in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 243 were isolated and cared for at community facilities.
overall, the number of new cases in the community decreased from 116 cases in the week before to 36 cases in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community also decreased from 17 cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week.
among the 80 confirmed cases reported from jun 7 to jun 13, 44 cases tested positive for their serology tests, 27 tested negative and nine serology test results were pending.
phased easing of covid-19 curbs from jun 14singapore will move to phase 3 (heightened alert)in two steps from monday after a fall in the number of covid-19 community cases, said moh on jun 10. the limit on group sizes for social gatherings will be increased from two to five people from monday.
similarly, five distinct visitors per household daily will be allowed.
more restrictions will be eased in the second step from jun 21, when dining in can resume if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming week.
as of sunday, singapore has reported 62,276 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                young dancers, wearing face masks to help curb the spread of covid-19 preparing for a performance during the opening of bali arts festival in bali, indonesia, saturday, june 12, 2021.  the island of bali is currently holding a month-long annual bali arts festival from june 12 until july 10.  apjakarta, june 12 (reuters): indonesia is expected to post its biggest trade surplus in six months of us$2.
3 billion in may, with exports and imports seen surging amid high commodity prices and a global trade recovery, a reuters poll has showed.
south-east asia's biggest economy has recorded a trade surplus every month since may 2020 as shipments were boosted by the high commodity prices and as trade partners eased coronavirus-related restrictions, while import recovery was slower due weak domestic demand.
the surplus in april was us$2.
19 billion.
eleven economists in the poll expected exports to jump 57.
49% on a yearly basis in may, outpacing the april's rise of 51.
94%, while imports were seen leaping 65% in may, against the previous month's 29.
93% rise.
"this high increases tend to be caused by the low base effect in the past year because last year's trading volume was very low at the beginning of the pandemic," said josua pardede, an economist with bank permata.
josua predicted the resource-rich country will continue to post trade surpluses for some time on the back of high commodity prices.
the covid-19 cases in indonesia rose by 7, 465 within one day to 1, 901, 490, with the death toll adding by 164 to 52, 730, the health ministry said on saturday (june 12).
according to the ministry, 5, 292 more people were discharged from hospitals, bringing the total number of recovered patients to 1, 740, 436. the virus has spread to all the country's 34 provinces.
specifically, within the past 24 hours, jakarta recorded 2, 455 new cases, central java 915, west java 876, yogyakarta 436 and riau 388. no new cases were detected in north sulawesi province.
reuters 
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                rising
                                                                ,
                                                                                                above 1.
9 million
                                                                ,
                                                                                                but trade
                                                                ,
                                                                                                high numbers



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
an incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace is yet another reminder of beijing's belligerence, says this observernew south wales: earlier this month, 16 chinese military transport aircraft weresighted a little more than 100kmoff the coast of the east malaysian state of sarawak.
the royal malaysian air force called it "a serious threat to national sovereignty".
the ministry of foreign affairs summoned china's ambassador to malaysia to voice its displeasure over the incursion into malaysian airspace.
however, china's foreign ministry spokesperson dismissed malaysian concerns by claiming that the aircraft were there for "routine flight exercises".
malaysia is not alone in being wary of chinese intentions in the region.
china's infamous "nine-dash line" around the south china sea and unilateral claims to as much as 80 per cent of the disputed waters, along with the construction of artificial islands, has caused much consternation.
regular incursions by chinese fishing trawlers have occurred in indonesian, vietnamese and filipino waters, and the belligerence displayed by chinese naval vessels and aircraft has further fuelled suspicions.
southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
the incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace comes barely two months after a controversial remark by the malaysian foreign affairs minister hishammuddin hussein during a visit to fujian province in southern china on apr 1. hishammuddin told his chinese counterpart wang yi that "you will always be my elder brother".
prominent malaysian opposition leader anwar ibrahim lamented that "this is not the language and style that should be used in the diplomatic world and international relations, as it seemingly implies malaysia is a puppet to a foreign power".
anwar urged hishammuddin to retract his comment and apologise to malaysians.
hishammuddin later clarified that his remark was meant to show his respect to wang, who is an older person and a very senior diplomat.
china as a superpowerhishammudin should have been more cautious with his language.
his remarks offer a further warning of the potential cost to southeast asian leaders of being seen to defer to china's sphere of influence.
beijing has calculated that as china gained stature as a superpower southeast asian nations would not, and could not, challenge its economic and military might.
this was underscored after president xi jinping announced in 2015 that china had no intention of militarising the south china sea, only to then proceeded to build more artificial islands and install missiles and erect buildings and military bases on those islands.
the risk for hishammudin was to again reinforce this lesson.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
southeast asian countries, including malaysia, recognise that none of them has the capability to match china's military might.
and the region does indeed have deep ties with china economically, which beijing is eager to grow.
construction of a high-speed railway service linking kunming in yunnan province with singapore as part of the belt and road initiative (bri) remains a top priority for china.
however, southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
china has been actively cultivating malaysia through the funding and construction of massive infrastructure projects.
in 2016, the east coast rail link (ecrl) costing 65.
5 billion ringgit (us$15.
8 billion) was launched to link kuantan on the eastern coast with ports in the western coast.
the melaka gateway, a us$10.
5 billion commercial and property development project, was awarded to a malaysian company that included three chinese commercial partners.
three pipelines were also awarded to chinese companies at a cost of us$4.
1 billion.
tight economic tiesmalaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
yet after the ruling barisan nasional was voted out of office in 2018, the incoming prime minister mahathir mohamed proceeded to review these projects.
in a visit to beijing in august 2018, he warned about the "new version of colonialism" where rich countries preyed on poorer ones in what was taken to be a swipe to china.
the three planned pipelines were scrapped a month later.
mahathir renegotiated terms for the ecrl and reduced the cost to 44 billion ringgit in 2019. with the collapse of the mahathir government in february 2020, prime minister muhyiddin yassin proceeded to mend ties with china.
in april this year, it was announced that the renegotiated ecrl would cost 50 billion ringgit.
however, the malacca state government cancelled the melaka gateway project in november 2020 on the basis that there had been "no development".
malaysia's experience in an example of how china influence is conditioning behaviour in southeast asia.
in 2019, nikkei asia reported that the 10-member association of southeast asian nations had overtaken the united states as the second-largest trading partner for china.
chinese investments also flow into southeast asia, largely through the bri, the global times reporting in november 2020 that china's investment in southeast asia was more than 76 per cent of the total investment in countries and regions linked with the bri.
but none of this should be cause for southeast asian leaders to surrender sovereign interests to a bully in beijing.
malaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
malaysia should take a lesson of its own, that china has a "new version of colonialism".
responding collectively as a region should be the priority.
jason lim is senior lecturer in asian history at the university of wollongong and the international history review editor of the asian studies review.
this commentaryfirst appearedin the lowy institute's blog the interpreter.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a four-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his three-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan, who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000), is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020, was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have three- or four-room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a two-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his four-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
photographer: jason alden/bloombergthe world's emergence from the coronavirus pandemic is set to unleash a wave of spending by older consumers, with increasing opportunities for investors in aging-linked stocks.
that's the view of money managers who see huge pent-up demand from wealthy seniors for medical services and luxury goods.
they also expect that the forced adoption of the internet by older people during lockdown will open up this demographic permanently to e-commerce companies and social networks.
the number of people aged 65 and over is projected to double to more than 1.
5 billion by 2050, greatly increasing their economic impact.
the total spending power of the older population globally was about $8.
4 trillion in 2020, according to world data lab.
that's expected to grow to $14 trillion over the next decade.
"the pandemic has accelerated many of the issues related to aging populations and has highlighted the urgency of resolving them," said christopher rossbach, chief investment officer at j.  stern & co.  "we think they will be significant drivers for growth and investment.
"u. s. , china are dominant markets for seniors' consumption 
source: world data labnote:  data is for middle and upper classes in 2011 purchasing power parityunderpinning the thesis are global fertility rates that are forecast to keep falling as life expectancy rises, even as the virus takes a staggering human toll.
china's decision last month to allow three-child families may have only limited impact on the aging trend in the most populous country.
here are some key focuses of investors who argue that the aging theme will be even more important as economies move past the pandemic.
from cancer screening to hip replacements and cataract surgery, countless medical procedures have been postponed since the virus took hold.
as this changes, global health-care spending is projected to bounce back in 2021, rising 5.
8% to $8.
8 trillion, according to ihs markit.
rossbach expects shares of medical device manufacturers to benefit and cited thermo fisher scientific inc. , medtronic plc, becton dickinson & co.  and alcon inc. shares of all four companies have underperformed the global stock benchmark so far this year, with u. s. -listed becton dickinson down 3% versus the msci ac world index's 11% gain.
mirabaud asset management ltd.  also likes medtronic, as well as edwards lifesciences corp.  for exposure to the cardiovascular diseases sector, said global equities head anu narula.
hearing aids are another market hurt by fewer in-person consultations, with morgan stanley estimating sales will normalize this year, following a 15% decline in the market in 2020.  among businesses in this field, it has an overweight recommendation on copenhagen-listed gn store nord a/s and equal-weight on demant a/s, which have both surged this year.
"the large contingent of developed countries that have universal health coverage is being joined by an increasing number of developing markets that are establishing and/or expanding universal health-care systems, especially in emerging asian markets," said mirabaud's narula.
as well as long-delayed holidays, the travel sector is poised to pick up with support from cashed-up seniors.
"older or richer people tend to want to visit relatives more," said sanjiv bhatia, founder of pembroke emerging markets.
read more: european luxury sizzles with nasdaq-beating multiples rossbach also has his eye on a rebound in luxury spending, with lvmh and liquor makers pernod ricard sa and diageo plc among his preferred reopening bets.
"a general point is that as people age their purchasing power increases and they become more concerned with quality, not quantity, of their consumption," he said.
insurers stand to benefit too, as a surge in unplanned early retirements since the emergence of covid-19 raises awareness of unforeseen health and employment risks.
strategists at credit suisse group ag expect growth potential for insurers, particularly in markets with relatively low penetration such as china.
juliana hansveden, a fund manager at nordea asset management, sees insurance, medical and the internet all coming together to create investment opportunities.
she is expressing confidence in the theme with a bet on loss-making ping an healthcare & technology co. , which is helping patients in china avoid long waiting time at hospitals by providing online medical consultations.
it is also working with parent company ping an insurance group co.  to bundle its health-care offering with insurance policies, she said.
read more: 'new normal' on the internet for older adultsj.
stern's rossbach expects growth across the board for companies that can tap seniors and their new-found confidence online.
"think of all the parents and grandparents who have used social networks or video conferencing apps for the first time to stay in touch with their loved ones, or have bought their first products through e-commerce or ordered their groceries or meals through delivery services," he said.
— with assistance by isolde macdonogh

home
 > 
life
posted at jun 14 2021 10:04 amsharetokyo tokyo olympic organizers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organizers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organizers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organizers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)shareweightlifting: official says bohol prospect sarno won't make olympics cutjune 14, 2021duterte, daughter sara unlikely to run under one ticket in 2022 polls, says lacsonjune 14, 2021watch: taal volcano emits steam-driven plumesjune 14, 2021lacson wants full accounting of p82.
5-b fund for covid vaccinesjune 14, 2021nominees declining not a good start for 1sambayan lacsonjune 14, 2021football: denmark team doctor confirms eriksen suffered 'cardiac arrest'june 14, 2021tennis: djokovic eyes golden grand slam after french open victoryjune 14, 2021wnba: aces power past wings, liberty hold off mercuryjune 14, 2021'things can change': 1sambayan says nominees for 2022 still 'fluid'june 14, 2021'a very decent person': lacson wishes robredo 'best of luck' after being named as possible presidential betjune 14, 2021football: scotland, spain set to start euro 2020 campaigns after england's opening winjune 14, 2021tennis: 'no regrets, no tears' for beaten tsitsipasjune 14, 2021winners leaguejune 14, 2021dumaguete covid-19 cases rise due to easing of travel restriction: mayorjune 14, 2021demonstrators celebrate israel's new coalition governmentjune 14, 2021gov't releases 200,000 national ids; 35 million pinoys finish step 1june 14, 2021motorcycle rider patay matapos magulungan ng bus sa edsajune 14, 2021okay bang kumuha ng co-branded credit card?june 14, 2021microsoft bolsters video game line-up as xbox turns 20june 14, 2021'divine vessel' to mark china's first human spaceflight since 2016june 14, 2021
brand news
brand newsmake every day a 'goodday' to move forwardhow to take care of your hands while keeping it cleanchito and neri miranda on wais parentingthis og 5g offers 25gb of no expiry datahow parents can help their kids with remote learningselfie tech, extended ram on latest vivo v21 series5 reasons to check this one-stop shop for home needspower your game livestream to showcase local gamers5 things you need to know about vitamin ccollege student wins p10-m in telco promosigns your 3+ toddlers lack nutrition and how to address itlazada ph celebrates mid-year with new brand ambassadorvivo v21 series now available for pre-order#bestme: empowering the best version of youvivo launches v21 seriesvivo partners with zeiss for elevated mobile photography on the x60a new era of beauty for everyone and the planetp1-m worth of prizes await winners of this e-sports tournamentvivo, zeiss collab unveils professional camera tech in x60 smartphoneshere is how this company promises to mitigate climate changeeasy to make yummy options for your child's breakfastvivo, together with zeiss, launches x60 series in phmandaluyong mall receives lgu safety seala modern, more-than-meets-the-eye art piece tells this beauty brand's storythis supermarket introduces self-checkout countertwo entry-level smartphones with longer battery life and bigger display© 2021 abs-cbn corporation.
all rights reserved.
aboutcareersprivacytermscontact usadvertise with us
published: 6:30pm, 12 jun, 2021updated: 8:56pm, 12 jun, 2021
federal health minister greg hunt and commodore eric young of the vaccine operations centre will provide a covid-19 update shortlyfollow our live coverage for the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic.
ap: eugene hoshiko, file phototokyo olympics organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
the athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other in the athletes' villageathletes will be asked to dine alone instead of using the big dining halls in the villagethe condoms are distributed to raise awareness about hivlarge numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organisers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from one another.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athletes' village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
ap: jae c.  hongdining has become another issue to resolve.
organisers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls, the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organisers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures, said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
reuterssee our full coverage of coronaviruswe acknowledge aboriginal and torres strait islander peoples as the first australians and traditional custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work.
this service may include material from agence france-presse (afp), aptn, reuters, aap, cnn and the bbc world service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
aest = australian eastern standard time which is 10 hours ahead of gmt (greenwich mean time)
how they can help in wealth creationtomorrow is different.
let's reshape it todaylet's get smarter about money#toughertogetherhunt for the brightest engineers in indiamental health awareness initiativethe dynamic duo of a holistic self-caredownload the economic times news app to get daily market updates & live business news.
trending nowpopular categorieshot on webin case you missed itet verticalsmore from our networkother useful linksservicesfind this comment offensive?choose your reason below and click on the report button.
this will alert our moderators to take actionreason for reporting:your reason has been reported to the admin.
log in/connect with:will be displayedwill not be displayedwill be displayedstories you might be interested in

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                singapore reports 10 new covid-19 community infections, including 2 unlinked.
singapore's total cases on sunday (june 13, 2021) now stands at 62, 276.  the straits times/annsingapore, june 13 (the straits times/ann): there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62, 276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
meanwhile, 266 people who have mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19 are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
altogether 34 people have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection in singapore.
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sunday (june 13)
                                                                ,
                                                                                                only 13
                                                                ,
                                                                                                situation
                                                                ,
                                                                                                under control



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
the group of seven leaders ended their summit on sunday by demanding that russia take action and investigate the use of chemical weapons within its territory and hold accountable those behind ransomware attacks and other cyber crimes.
why it matters: the allied language come as all eyes turn to president biden's wednesday meeting with russian president vladimir putin in geneva.
get market news worthy of your time with axios markets.
subscribe for free.
the state of play: the leaders called on russia to "end its systematic crackdown on independent civil society and media.
"they also reiterated their support for ukraine and pressed russia to deescalate tensions between the two nations by withdrawing troops from ukraine's eastern border and the crimean peninsula.
the big picture: secretary of state antony blinken made the rounds on the sunday talk shows and tried to temper expectations about the upcoming meeting between biden and putin, saying that it would not be a "flip-the-light switch moment" for u. s. -russia relations.
biden himself told reporters on sunday that he agreed with putin's recent comments that u. s. -russia relations are at their lowest point in years, per reuters.
a recent abc news/ipsos poll found that 49% of americans trust biden to negotiate on their behalf with putin.
but, but, but: lawmakers from both parties want biden to take a tough stance with putin on the issue of ransomware gangs, and convey the message that if russia doesn't crack down on cybercriminals within its borders, the united states will, according to politico.
putin has expressed willingness to hand over cybercriminals to the united states if the united states returns the favor, per reuters.
ukraine's president volodymyr zelensky has also expressed reservations about the upcoming biden's decisions vis-a-vis russia.
of note: the issues of chemical weapons and cyberattacks are in the spotlight at this year's g7 summit in light of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny with a chemical nerve agent and the ransomware attack on america's colonial pipeline, reports reuters.
the colonial pipeline attack was carried out by darkside, a russia-based cybercrime group.
more from axios: sign up to get the latest market trends with axios markets.
subscribe for freethe following is a transcript of an interview with andy slavitt, former white house senior covid-19 adviser, that aired sunday, june 13, 2021, on "face the nation.
"moscow's mayor has effectively declared a public holiday for all of next week to combat a surge in covid-19 cases.
sergei sobyanin announced the decision on saturday, saying it would not affect organisations that maintain the russian capital's infrastructure, the military, and other strategically important enterprises.
monday is anyway a public holiday, and the mayor told people to also stay off work for the rest of the week.
have you considered how you'll withdraw your retirement income?
these simple mistakes could cost you thousands of dollars.
hong kong democracy activist agnes chow was released on saturday from prison on the second anniversary of the city's huge democracy rallies, with police out in force and protests now all but banned.
two thousand officers have been placed on standby after social media calls for residents to commemorate the failed democracy demonstrations.
authorities have kept a coronavirus prohibition on public gatherings despite the city recording just three local infections in the last month.
a beijing-imposeddenzel dumfries rescued the netherlands with a goal in the 85th minute to give his team a 3-2 win over ukraine at the european championship.
the netherlands was playing at a major soccer tournament for the first time in seven years.
fans in amsterdam for the european championship match between the netherlands and ukraine have expressed their support for christian eriksen following his collapse on saturday.
the islamic state group has claimed responsibility for bombing two minivans in a mostly shiite neighborhood in the afghan capital that killed seven people.
among the dead were two employees of afghanistan's state-run film company, a colleague said sunday.
in a statement issued late saturday, afghanistan's is affiliate said its operatives blew up two minivans carrying "disbeliever shiites" using sticky bombs.
get a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
south african health inspectors will carry out further checks on a batch of johnson & johnson covid-19 vaccines following a contamination error earlier this year at the u. s.  plant where the doses were produced, the health ministry said.
"there is now a real possibility that they may not be, however this is for the regulator to rule on," a ministry statement said.
the ministry said 300,000 j&j doses had been cleared for export to south africa and that the u. s.  food and drug administration (fda) had approved an extension of the expiry date, saying the vaccine can be stored at 2-8 degrees celsius for 4.
5 months instead of three.
nato leaders hope to open a new chapter in transatlantic relations at a summit with u. s.  president joe biden on monday, agreeing to focus on tackling climate change for the first time as well as facing up china's military rise.
described as a "pivotal moment" by nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg, the summit aims to turn the page on four tense years with biden's predecessor donald trump, who shook confidence in the western alliance by calling it "obsolete".
for the 30 allies meeting in brussels, diplomats say nothing could be further from the truth, looking to the nuclear-armed alliance founded in 1949 to help deal with threats from extreme weather that can worsen conflicts to russian attempts to undermine western democracies through covert attacks.
the island of cyprus has become a hotspot for loggerhead sea turtles to nest from spring to summer.
if you pay more than $99/month for power and own a home in texas, you better read this.
photo: "axios on hbo"ambassador linda thomas-greenfield, u. s.  ambassador to the u. n. , told me on "axios on hbo" that president biden will be candid, frank — and tough — during this week's summit with russian president vladimir putin.
"the president will make clear to the russians that they cannot harbor cyber terrorists and criminals in their country and not be held accountable for it," she added.
"and they need to take the responsibility for dealing with this issue.
"stay on top of the latest marcanadian prime minister justin trudeau led a group of seven discussion of china on saturday and called on leaders to come up with a unified approach to the challenges posed by the people's republic, a source said.
g7 leaders who together control about $40 trillion in economic clout reached broad alignment on building a concerted approach to china, the source with knowledge of the discussions told reuters.
"trudeau's message today was that we really need to work to build a consensus on a unified approach to the challenges that china presents all of us," the source said.
francisco lindor's bat has started to come around of late, as evidenced by his two-run home run in the first inning of saturday's 4-1 win over the san diego padres.
read this before going solar in texas.
[you'll likely qualify!
]england gets its tournament started on sunday.
benjamin netanyahu, israel's longest serving prime minister, was ousted on sunday night by a cross-party coalition government, raising hopes that the worst political crisis in the country's history is drawing to a close.
at a special session in the knesset, the israeli parliament, lawmakers voted narrowly in favour of removing mr netanyahu from high office and swearing in a unity government.
the coalition will be led by naftali bennett, the right-wing leader of the yamina party, who will serve athe pine island glacier on the west antarctic ice sheet is responsible for more than a quarter of antarctica's contribution to global sea level rise over the past decades.
now, a new study shows it is more vulnerable to rapid melting than thought, because climate change is weakening its natural braking system.
why it matters: at stake is the future of a glacier containing about 160 trillion tons of ice, which if it were all to melt into the ocean would cause about 1.
6 feet of global sea level risso mad that i just learned this.
.
.
at a low point in u. s. -russian relations, president joe biden and russian president vladimir putin appear to agree broadly on at least one thing — their first face-to-face meeting wednesday is a chance to set the stage for a new era in arms control.
the fabric of arms control has been fraying, notably with the abandonment in 2019 — first by washington, then by moscow — of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, which had governed a whole class of missiles for more than three decades.
last month the biden administration informed the russians that it would not reenter the treaty, and last week putin confirmed russia's exit.
biden's meeting with queen elizabeth ii is his first in nearly four decades.
western democracies are in a race to compete with autocratic governments, u. s.  president joe biden said on sunday.
"we're in a contest, not with china per se, .
.
.
with autocrats, autocratic governments around the world, as to whether or not democracies can compete with them in a rapidly changing 21st century," biden told a news conference at the conclusion of a group of seven leaders' summit in britain.
top surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
"pulse nightclub is hallowed ground.
"eriksen, 29, collapsed in the 42nd minute of the match near the touchline after a denmark throw-in and was given life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch, with officials later saying the player was stable and awake in hospital.
sanjay sharma of st.  george's university of london, the playmaker's cardiologist at former club tottenham hotspur, also said eriksen had no prior heart issues during his time with the premier league side.
president joe biden's hopes of channeling billions of dollars into green infrastructure investments  to fight climate change are running into the political obstacle of winning over republican lawmakers who oppose that approach as unnecessary, excessive spending.
as negotiations unfold in congress in search of a bipartisan deal, the white house's ability to ensure a climate focus in biden's sweeping infrastructure package is becoming daunting — so much so that key democrats are warning the administration to quit negotiating with republicans, calling it a waste of time that will produce no viable compromise.
the debate is similar to the political and policy differences complicating biden's broader talks over his ambitious infrastructure agenda, the sweeping $1.
7 trillion american jobs plan making its way through congress, as democrats and republicans argue over what, exactly, constitutes infrastructure and how much is needed.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
milan (reuters) the head of the european union drug regulator's covid-19 task force said on sunday (june 13) that astrazeneca's coronavirus vaccine had a favourable risk-benefit profile for all age groups and particularly for those aged over 60. italian newspaper la stampa earlier quoted european medicines agency (ema) task force chief marco cavaleri as saying that countries should avoid giving the vaccine to people aged over 60 in addition to younger age groups, amid fears over very rare blood clotting and as alternative vaccines become available.
"unfortunately my words have not been interpreted correctly in a recent interview with la stampa," dr cavaleri said in a statement to reuters.
the astrazeneca shot "maintains a favourable benefit risk profile in all ages but particularly in the elderly above 60", he said.
the ema's position is that the astrazeneca shot is safe and can be used for all age groups over 18.  however several eu member states have stopped administering it to people below a certain age, usually ranging from 50 to 65, restricting its use to older people, due to very rare cases of blood clotting, mainly among young people.
on sunday evening, la stampa changed the headline on its article online and added a clarification with dr cavaleri's later comments to its article.
la stampa editor massimo giannini said he had no further comment.
earlier this week, the italian government said it would restrict the use of the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, after a teenager who had received the shot died from a rare form of blood clotting.
italian health minister roberto speranza told reporters on sunday that italy will continue to use the astrazeneca vaccine on the over 60s, including on those who have not received a first shot.
like many european countries, italy briefly halted astrazeneca inoculations in march over concerns about the very rare blood clotting problems.
it resumed them the following month with the recommendation that the product be "preferably" used for people over the age of 60, after the ema said its benefits outweighed any risks.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
carbis bay, england: group of seven (g7) leaders on sunday (jun 13) scolded china over human rights in xinjiang, called for hong kong to keep a high degree of autonomy and demanded a full and thorough investigation of the origins of the coronavirus in china.
after discussing how to come up with a unified position on china, leaders issued a highly critical final communique that delved into what are for china some of the most sensitive issues, including also taiwan.
the re-emergence of china as a leading global power is considered to be one of the most significant geopolitical events of recent times, alongside the 1991 fall of the soviet union that ended the cold war.
china's rise has also unnerved the united states: president joe biden casts china as the main strategic competitor and has vowed to confront china's "economic abuses" and push back against human rights violations.
"we will promote our values, including by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration," the g7 said.
"we also call for a timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based who-convened phase 2 covid-19 origins study including, as recommended by the experts' report, in china," the g7 said.
reuters earlier reported the finalised version of the draft communique.
before the g7 criticism emerged, china pointedly cautioned g7 leaders that the days when "small" groups of countries decided the fate of the world was long gone.
the g7 also said they underscored "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, and encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues".
"we remain seriously concerned about the situation in the east and south china seas and strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status quo and increase tensions," they said.
forced labourthe g7 said it was concerned about forced labour in global supply chains including in the agricultural, solar and garment sectors.
"we are concerned by the use of all forms of forced labour in global supply chains, including state-sponsored forced labour of vulnerable groups and minorities, including in the agricultural, solar, and garment sectors," the g7 said.
beijing has repeatedly hit back against what it perceives as attempts by western powers to contain china, and says many major powers are still gripped by an outdated imperial mindset after years of humiliating china.
un experts and rights groups estimate more than a million people, mainly uyghurs and other muslim minorities, have been detained in recent years in a vast system of camps in xinjiang.
china denies all accusations of forced labour or abuse.
it initially denied the camps existed, but has since said they are vocational centres and are designed to combat extremism.
in late 2019, china said all people in the camps had "graduated".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
in a joint communique, the g7 pledges to address vaccine inequity, climate change and global taxes.
the leaders of the g7 countries ended a three-day summit with a diverse set of initiatives, including a pledge to vaccinate poorer countries against the coronavirus, a promise to make large corporations pay their fair share of taxes and a plan to tackle climate change with a blend of technology and money.
in a joint communique delivered on sunday at the end of the meeting in the british southwestern city of cornwall, the leaders of the g7 countries – canada, france, germany, italy, japan, the united kingdom and the united states – sought to show that international cooperation is back after the upheavals caused by the pandemic and the unpredictability of former us president donald trump.
here is a round-up of the g7's main initiatives:the g7 made ambitious promises, such as sharing vaccine doses with less well-off nations that urgently need them.
uk prime minister boris johnson, who held a press conference at the conclusion of the summit, said the group would pledge at least 1 billion doses, with half of that coming from the us and 100 million from britain.
many of the promised doses will flow through covax, a global vaccine buying system backed by the world health organization and gavi, the vaccine alliance.
the pledge does not represent entirely new resources, and the donation is far short of the number of shots needed to fully vaccinate poorer nations.
moreover, the plan does not address distribution gaps that could make it difficult to deliver doses.
who chief tedros adhanom ghebreyesus and other public health officials commended the vaccine pledge but said it is not enough.
to truly end the pandemic, he said, 11 billion doses are needed to vaccinate at least 70 percent of the world's population by mid-2022.
"we need more and we need them faster," tedros said.
the g7 also urged china to cooperate with the un health agency on a "transparent" second-phase probe into the origins of the global coronavirus pandemic.
"we .
.
.
call for a timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based who-convened phase 2 covid-19 origins study including, as recommended by the experts' report, in china," the group said in their final statement.
climate change was a key focus of the leaders' final day of talks with the g7 countries formally backing the ramp-up of collective action to tackle the environmental crisis.
"we commit to .
.
.
halving our collective emissions over the two decades to 2030, increasing and improving climate finance to 2025 and to conserve or protect at least 30 percent of our land and oceans by 2030," read the joint communique.
the seven leaders also agreed to raise their contributions to meet an overdue spending pledge of $100bn a year to help poorer countries cut carbon emissions and cope with global warming, but campaigners said firm cash promises were missing.
alongside plans billed as helping speed infrastructure funding in developing countries and a shift to renewable and sustainable technology, the world's seven largest advanced economies again pledged to meet the climate finance target.
however, climate groups said such promises lacked detail.
a spokesman for british prime minister boris johnson said individual nations were expected to set out the size of the increases "in due course".
max lawson, head of inequality policy at oxfam, said it was "unacceptable that most of the g7 missed the opportunity to make new pledges of climate finance.
""developing countries were looking for progress on this front ahead of landmark climate talks in glasgow.
vague promises of new financing for green development projects should not distract from this goal," he said.
the decision had been widely anticipated after finance ministers earlier this month embraced placing a global minimum tax of at least 15 percent on large multinational companies, in an attempt to stop corporations from using tax havens to avoid taxes and thus robbing some countries of much-needed revenue.
the proposal will now go to g20 nations meeting in italy next month.
the wealthy nations demanded russia take action against those conducting cyberattacks and using ransomware, and called for an investigation into the use of chemical weapons on russian soil.
"we call on russia to urgently investigate and credibly explain the use of a chemical weapon on its soil, to end its systematic crackdown on independent civil society and media, and to identify, disrupt, and hold to account those within its borders who conduct ransomware attacks, abuse virtual currency to launder ransoms, and other cybercrimes," a communique issued after the conclusion of the leaders' summit in britain said.
the g7 also called for an immediate end to hostilities in ethiopia's tigray region.
"we are deeply concerned by the ongoing conflict in ethiopia's tigray region and reports of an unfolding major humanitarian tragedy," said the communique.
"we call for an immediate cessation of hostilities, unimpeded humanitarian access to all areas and the immediate withdrawal of eritrean forces.
"fighting broke out in the region in november between government troops and the region's former ruling party, the tigray people's liberation front (tplf).
troops from neighbouring eritrea also entered the conflict to support the ethiopian government.
the leaders of the wealthy democracies say they will work together to challenge china's "non-market economic practices" and to call on beijing to respect human rights in xinjiang and hong kong.
us president joe biden had wanted to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing and strongly call out china's "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses".
the g7 communique said: "with regard to china, and competition in the global economy, we will continue to consult on collective approaches to challenging non-market policies and practices which undermine the fair and transparent operation of the global economy.
"the leaders also said they will promote their values by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms in xinjiang, where beijing is accused of committing serious human rights abuses against the uighur minority, and in the semi-autonomous city of hong kong.
un chief warns virus could mutate and become resistant to the vaccines.
protesters march to downing street and call on g7 leaders to end their support to israel following gaza assault.
the 'build back better world' project is aimed squarely at competing with china's belt and road initiative.
follow al jazeera english:
a former producing director (pd) for sbs's "running man" has nothing but compliments for lee kwang soo!on june 13, former pd lee hwan jin uploaded a picture of lee kwang soo on his instagram account along with a post praising the star for his attitude on the show.
his post reads as follows:from what i remember, kwang soo never once told the producers "no.
"he tore off name tags with a broken pinky toe, and even got soaked with water in the middle of winter while suffering from a cold.
when i was looking at kwang soo while editing, i thought he was such a hilarious guy that if his fancam were to be released it would be a culture shock to comedians all around the world.
to the hoodwinker of the entertainment world who appeared like a mutant, my good friend, and special brother kwang soo, you truly did an amazing job for such a long time.
lastly, there is something i would like to convey to everyone.
kwang soo is not an idiot.
or is he.
.
.
?even if he is, he's not.
.
.
that much of an idiot.
or.
.
.
is.
.
.
he?pd lee hwan jin ended his post with the hashtags "forever," "running man," and "lee kwang soo.
"어차피 잘 될 놈(@hwanjine)님의 공유 게시물the next episode of running man, which will be lee kwang soo's last before stepping down from the show, airs on june 13 at 5 p. m.  kst.
watch "running man" below: watch now source (1)top photo credit: xportsnews
eric and wei shi panicked at first: how could they raise elliot to be like everyone else?
would he lag developmentally?
could he ever be rich and successful?
a year on, they're using his story to inspire others.
singapore: there are nine photos of baby elliot displayed above the koh family's dining table.
they provide a window into a time when life was very different for his parents.
in one, elliot is just out of hospital, a newborn being burped by his father.
in another, he is cuddled up to his mother, warmly dressed against the spray of jewel's indoor waterfall.
there is also one of his parents kissing him, their arms encircling him protectively.
eric, 32, and wei shi, 31, put the photos up one evening last july when elliot was four months old.
they were looking forward to showing them to him as he grew older.
they have never got to do so.
the very next day, they brought him to the doctor, suspecting a developmental delay.
a day later, they found out elliot was blind and was unlikely to ever have sight.
eric remembers both of them bursting into tears on the spot.
"my wife was still listening to the doctor intently to hear his explanation and diagnosis," he says.
"i just walked out of the room and cried.
"nothing much needed to be said.
"the clinic was crowded, but his world went silent when he walked out of the doctor's office.
he called his mother, broke it to her and they cried on the phone together.
he was still in shock as he tried to process how it had come to this.
it started with a comment from wei shi's father, who had noticed elliot seemingly having trouble tracking things with his eyes.
the couple did not think much of it then.
newborns often do not see very well yet, and their son would catch up, they rationalised.
but the signs kept coming.
he showed no interest in the toys his grandmother placed in front of him.
he did not seem to smile or look at his surroundings.
and when wei shi brought elliot on a play date, she noticed that her friend's baby of the same age was curious and excited, reaching out to grab toys, while elliot remained passive and did not lift his head.
at that point, they decided to take him to a doctor, although they were still "not too worried".
but the paediatrician referred them to an ophthalmologist, who gave them the news that shook their world.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the couple did not exchange many words that day.
but questions kept running through their minds.
what could they do for elliot?
what will happen to him when they are gone?wei shi could not help but wonder: had she done anything — maybe it was her diet or lifestyle — during her pregnancy or even during the delivery that could have resulted in this?but eric made it clear that neither of them was to blame.
"we can't solve the problem just by assigning blame," he says.
"i was just focused on providing support for elliot and wei shi, just to be there and give them what they need.
"elliot, now 15 months old, was eventually diagnosed with leber congenital amaurosis, an inherited disease that causes vision loss.
it affects about two to three newborns in every 100,000 births, according to the united states' national library of medicine and the american association for paediatric ophthalmology and strabismus.
"the doctors said it wasn't detectable on any scan because the retinas were just so tiny.
and it's not something that was avoidable," she added.
once i knew that, i started to think that maybe i should focus on what i can control rather than the past, which is beyond my control.
a new frienderic and wei shi wanted more answers to all the questions they had.
being young, modern parents, as they described themselves, they turned to google first.
they searched for the abstract, like how the blind visualise things, as well as answers as to how they could interact with and take care of elliot.
watch: raising a blind baby and the lessons we've learnt from it (12:02)they joined facebook groups for parents of children with the same disorder.
while these were international groups, it was encouraging to see that the other children were growing up well.
the couple also picked up useful tips on caring for elliot, but the issue was a lack of local context.
they knew his condition was rare but had still hoped that help would be readily available for blind infants in singapore.
for example, wei shi remembers looking for pre-schools or specialised therapies for visually impaired babies and children.
but she came away disappointed.
"it made me panic a little because i didn't know better," she says.
"and if there's nothing on the internet, where can i find this information?
"she recalls asking the doctors as much as possible about what to expect and so on.
but there were times the couple were also at a loss to know what to ask, she adds.
help came from an unexpected source.
as eric sat in hospital waiting for elliot to undergo tests, he flicked his phone's screen and went on reddit, which he browsed regularly.
he had never made a post on the forum — but that day, he did.
it was, simply: baby born blind.
need help.
the replies he got surprised and touched him.
some pointed out local resources and organisations that support the blind; others said they had visually impaired friends and were happy to share their experiences.
"people were so willing to help," he says.
"they gave us more than enough resources for us to get by.
"that was how they met cheryl yeo.
an orientation and mobility specialist from guide dogs singapore, the 29-year-old teaches people with visual impairment how to travel independently, and the skills they eventually need to use a guide dog.
the kohs had tried ringing up several organisations but could not get through in the post-circuit breaker period, with people still working from home.
cheryl, whose calls were rerouted to her mobile, was the first person to call them back.
the conversation lasted almost two hours.
the couple were anxious and, she recalls, sounded overwhelmed.
"one of the big questions eric asked was whether elliot would be able to get a girlfriend," she says.
"it's rather funny, but it's actually quite a big concern because it's about how he's going to grow up, be like everyone else and find a job.
"she told them stories about her clients, like the schools they attended, their jobs and, in answer to eric's question, how some of them were looking for girlfriends.
"it's just (about) showing him that it's quite possible to be independent even though you're growing up with vision impairment," she says.
she arranged for them to speak to some of her clients and linked them up with other organisations and services they could tap for support.
it was a great comfort to the couple.
"what we wanted at that point in time was just reassurance, that somebody understood what we were going through," says eric.
"she's been a great help.
"they count her as one of their friends now.
she visits them regularly, teaching them how to interact and play with elliot, and even brings along her husband and eight-month-old baby.
bringing up babyas the months went by, the family developed their own routine.
it bears similarities to those of other families with young children, but with noticeable tweaks.
during breakfast, wei shi puts elliot's hand on her jaw so he can feel the chewing motion.
it is to encourage him, but it is no picnic; he does not like food, and the colourful vegetables in his porridge do nothing to entice him.
"in the past, i introduced exciting stuff with different textures.
but it was disappointing if he didn't eat," she says.
"nowadays i don't care already.
i'd just throw everything into a pot to make porridge.
"his play area is strewn with toys that tend to make sounds or play music.
one of his favourites is a spinning toy that makes a rattling sound.
there is a dinosaur whose buttons he presses to hear sounds, and a toy piano on one side of the living room.
his books are heavy on texture, have buttons that play music, and one has braille markings, passed to him from another family with a visually impaired child.
wei shi points out, however, that his condition does not mean they cannot do visual activities like reading a book with him.
the activity simply must be adapted so he can understand.
"if he wasn't visually impaired, i'd probably just point to the different pictures and tell him it's a cow.
but he won't be able to relate to all this.
so i tell him this is a book, this is how a book works, you have to flip the pages and press the button," she cites.
while there are toys that he cannot fully enjoy, such as stacking cups and animal figures, the couple make a point of letting him feel the different shapes and textures.
what has met with little success, however, is an activity board filled with locks, switches and lights, known as a toddlers' busy board.
it was handmade by eric during his wife's pregnancy.
the appeal of these toys often comes from children watching their parents use them.
but eric has not given up hope.
"perhaps when he's 15, he'll start getting interested," quips the father.
each activity they plan for him is purposeful, from the nightly baby massages to help him relax before bedtime, to naming his body parts out loud as they touch each one.
like other parents, they take him out to enjoy new experiences, though the highlight of the outing may only be something like elliot sitting on artificial grass at jewel.
it can be tiring, wei shi says, to plan all the activities and look after him.
but his sweet smile when he crawls to her and feels her face spurs the couple on.
that action is a sign of improvement too.
"all the lost sleep, the time spent with him to bring him to who he is today, is totally worth it," she says.
his biggest achievementeric and wei shi learnt from the start that being blind meant elliot would have no visual motivation to lift his head and reach forward, which would result in other developmental delays, such as in standing and even crawling.
so sometimes they cannot imagine he has come this far.
crawling is a difficult milestone to achieve, says wei shi.
besides the lack of visual motivation, there is the fear of moving head-first into an unfamiliar, dark space.
and many visually impaired babies would skip this stage.
getting the hang of it was not easy for elliot.
it took months of effort, professional therapy and his parents' perseverance with shaking a rattle in front of him to encourage him before he began making tentative movements forward.
"i would've been okay if he'd skipped crawling altogether.
i thought it was just good exercise for him," says wei shi.
"but one fine day, he just pushed up and started crawling.
"i was really, really proud of him.
"their pride grows when they see him exploring the house by himself, even the corners he had not explored before, or moving across the living room to get closer to the sound of nursery rhymes from the television.
he now goes for physiotherapy, speech therapy and occupational therapy about once a month at kk women's and children's hospital.
and they have high hopes for him once again.
"nobody wants their kid to be lousy," says eric.
"like any other singaporean parent, our initial thought was for our baby to be rich, successful and happy with what he does.
"while that changed when they discovered elliot's condition, they have come to understand over the months that he can achieve as much as a sighted person.
"our expectations shouldn't be (lowered) from .
.
.
'i want my kid to be successful' to 'okay, just be independent,'" says eric.
"you just have to realise that he'll have to reach these targets in a different way.
"dealing with reactions from others, however, is still a work in progress.
eric was recently reminded of an incident when elliot was about six months old and was wearing baby spectacles that stopped him pressing his eyes, a tendency among visually impaired children that could result in sunken eyes, notes wei shi.
he was in a baby carrier with eric, who was picking up breakfast for the family, and on that one trip, at least three people stopped to ask about the spectacles.
"i just got annoyed and walked away," recalls eric, who also felt sad.
"at that point in time, we'd accepted it .
.
.
but it's generally not so easy to just start telling people and open up about it.
"last month, when elliot received his first cane — a blue, child-sized one — the emotions hit home again.
"we're not ashamed of him.
and we know that the best thing to do is to get him used to walking with a cane so he can be independent as soon as possible," says eric.
"but when people can easily tell he's visually impaired .
.
.
i don't feel i'm ready to go out there and explain yet.
"raising awarenesswei shi says that before her son came along, she had never interacted closely with a visually impaired person, let alone be friends with one.
in parenting elliot, she and eric have grown more socially aware.
they began noticing little things that could help a blind person to navigate through society.
not all public buses and traffic lights, for example, have audio cues.
even escalators could provide auditory cues for approaching users to inform them of the direction, cites eric.
pre-school education is also a challenge.
the couple began approaching schools a year ahead of their son turning 18 months old.
out of "more than 10 schools", most rejected them, despite the kohs' offer to bring in a vision therapist to guide the teachers on how to work with elliot.
"the reason they gave is along the lines of .
.
.
'we're afraid we don't know how to take care of the baby properly,'" he says.
"i understand this from their perspective .
.
.
liability is something no company would want to have.
but we just wanted them to be a little more understanding and inclusive.
"eventually, they found a school willing to help them.
"compared to 10 years ago, when there was less awareness of the needs of the special needs community, today's society has made great progress," he adds.
"but obviously, as a parent, i hope more can be done.
"wei shi is doing her part with an instagram account she created in september to document elliot's developmental milestones and the various ways she helps him learn.
the account, @blindandshine, has more than 1,500 followers.
she has also attracted some collaborations with brands.
"i don't want any other pair of parents to feel the helplessness that we felt should the same thing happen to them," she says.
she can also advocate for elliot at a pragmatic level, for example after he received three sets of braille blocks for christmas.
these well-intentioned gifts were the likely result of a google search for "braille toys", she says.
"(but) people have the misunderstanding that maybe he can't play with normal toys," wei shi adds.
"he can, just maybe he needs adaptations.
"she knew, however, where they were coming from — she had once been in their shoes.
"i had preconceived thoughts, not because i'm an elitist but simply because of a lack of awareness.
and nobody told me these things," she says.
love is blindthe change the couple have undergone in their lives in the past year has been both unexpected and dramatic.
every month, however, they still take a family photo, their camera set up on a tripod as they coax elliot to face forward.
"he always looks down," says wei shi.
"it's not meaningful for him because he doesn't know why we're pausing.
"but each photo is lovingly saved, not so much for him to enjoy in future but for his parents to look back on as he grows.
just visible in the background of one of the photos on their wall is a pegboard with the words "today's brew", mimicking the look of a cafe.
today, the board stands on the television console, unmissable as one enters their home — and it reads "love's blind".
because the love within the family, as wei shi says, comes from the heart rather than by sight.
they still grieve over what could have been, but it is not a case of "oh, we're so sad", says eric.
"we didn't know this was going to happen.
but looking at his growth and happiness, we're just as happy taking care of him as any other parent would be of their child.
"to mark each milestone in elliot's life, such as his first birthday or when he got his first cane, eric also takes out a recorder and documents the moment with his voice.
"today, people will know your story, and you'll inspire many people," eric talks away into the recorder.
"you want to be an influencer and earn money?
be a politician?
also can. "
published: 11:00pm, 12 jun, 2021updated: 11:00pm, 12 jun, 2021
published: 10:48pm, 13 jun, 2021updated: 10:48pm, 13 jun, 2021

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                the permaisuri zarith sofiah opera house (foreground on right) sits by under-construction high-rise condominiums in the southern malaysian state of johor bahru, as seen from singapore, afp
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                malaysia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                s. iswaran
                                                                ,
                                                                                                wee ka siong
                                                                ,
                                                                                                border



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?at a time of frequent geopolitical friction among those three powers, washington and brussels want to avoid this scenario by investing in the market for 17 minerals with unique properties that today are largely extracted and refined in china.
"the expected exponential growth in demand for minerals that are linked to clean energy is putting more pressure on us and europe to take a closer look at where the vulnerabilities are and the concrete steps these governments can take," said jane nakano, a senior fellow at the washington-based center for strategic and international studies.
in 2019, the united states imported 80 percent of its rare earth minerals from china, the us geological survey says.
the european union gets 98 percent of its supply from china, the european commission said last year.
amid the transition to green energy in which rare earth minerals are sure to play a role, china's market dominance is enough to sound an alarm in western capitals.
cars and turbines -rare earth minerals with names like neodymium, praseodymium and dysprosium are crucial to the manufacture of magnets used in industries of the future like wind turbines and electric cars.
and they are already present in consumer goods such as smartphones, computer screens and telescopic lenses.
others have more traditional uses, like cerium for glass polishing and lanthanum for car catalysts or optical lenses.
this week the us senate passed a law aimed at improving american competitiveness that includes provisions to improve critical minerals supply chains, following a similar executive order issued by president joe biden in february.
washington aims to boost production and processing of rare earths and lithium, another key mineral component, while "working with allies and partners to increase sustainable global supply and reduce reliance on geopolitical competitors," deputy director of the national economic council sameera fazili said tuesday.
boosting us production -the best hope for boosting american production can be found at the mountain pass mine in california.
once one of the major players in the sector, the mine suffered as china rose and ate up its market share, aided by beijing's heavy government subsidies.
mp materials relaunched the mine in 2017 and aims to make it a symbol of america's industrial rebirth, saying the concentration of rare earths at its site is one of the world's largest and highest-grade rare earth deposits, with soil concentrations of seven percent versus 0.
1 to four percent elsewhere.
the company's aim is to separate rare earth minerals from each other via a chemical process, and then by 2025 manufacture the magnets that industry uses -- as market-leading chinese firms currently do.
the project was supported by the us government, while a chinese firm is a minority shareholder.
elsewhere, australian company lynas has won several contracts in the united states, including an ore refinery in texas for the military that was supported by the defense department.
complications for europe -in europe, bernd schafer, ceo and managing director of rare earth mineral consortium eit raw materials, said this month that an "action plan" will soon be presented to the european commission on how to boost production.
europe, however, faces a more complicated path to achieving this goal, said david merriman, a specialist in batteries and electric cars for london-based consultancy roskill.
"europe is expected to rely on importing raw materials or semi-processed materials and become more a processing base or recycling base," he said.
china is expected to remain dominant for some time to come, but schafer said that if recycling is scaled up, "20 to 30 percent of europe's rare earth magnet needs by 2030 could be sourced domestically in the eu from literally zero today.
"the desire to accelerate rare earth production comes amid a shortage of semiconductors, which are essential for the computing and automotive industries and mostly manufactured in asia.
the scarcity "has caused global manufacturers to think about their supply chain in a new way, and think about vulnerabilities," a spokesman for mp materials said, adding that several european automotive and wind power firms are already in contact with the company.
alb/cs/dwit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistmalaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
moscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yeartwo strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
as nuclear nations commit to renewing and sometimes expanding their arsenals, a decline seen since the early 1990s seems to have stalled, with some signs of a numerical increase, researchers said monday
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from monday (june 14), which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening on monday will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post on sunday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on sunday (13 june) confirmed 13 new cases of covid-19 infection in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,276. of the new cases, 10 are community transmissions with eight linked to past cases, said moh in a news release.
five of the community cases have already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance.
the remaining two community cases are unlinked.
there are no new cases from the migrant worker dormitories.
moh also reported three imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice since their arrival in singapore.
of the 13 new cases, seven are asymptomatic, and were detected from screening and surveillance, while six were symptomatic.
overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 116 cases in the week before to 36 cases in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has also fallen from 17 cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week.
the two unlinked cases are a 23-year-old fully vaccinated male india national who works as a nursing aide at all saints home (hougang) and a 27-year-old male india national who works as an engineer at ecoxplore.
the latter case is the source of a new cluster named after his case number.
there are four cases linked to the new cluster.
they are:a 50-year-old bangladeshi man who is employed by theng liang lee services as a conservancy worker at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre.
a 72-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and works at a sundry shop at the location.
a 67-year-old singaporean woman who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
a 65-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
the food centre is closed to all members of the public for three days from sunday to 15 june, as moh's epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
all staff and tenants who have been working at the location from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine.
in order to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission, moh will conduct special testing operations for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
moh will also extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june.
there are two new cases linked to the cluster, named after the case number of the 27-year-old male india national who works at ecoxplore.
they are a 19-year-old singaporean woman who works as a warehouse assistant at dhl express (singapore) and a 39-year-old singaporean woman who is employed by cleen first services as a cleaner at emerald park condominium.
both are household contacts and family members to each another.
they are household contacts of the male india national.
two cases are linked and not part of a cluster.
one of them is a 59-year-old singaporean woman who works as a part-time cleaner at crystal lodge and is a close contact of a previous case.
the other is a 66-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree, and a family member of a previous case.
of the three imported cases, two are singapore permanent residents who returned from india, and one is a work permit holder who arrived from indonesia and is a foreign domestic worker.
with 31 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on sunday, 61,869 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 130 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 243 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 80 confirmed cases reported from 7 to 13 june, 44 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 27 have tested negative, and nine serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
published: 12:59am, 14 jun, 2021updated: 1:05am, 14 jun, 2021
by joseph lee & becky mortonbbc newsleaders of the major industrial nations have pledged one billion covid vaccine doses to poor countries as a "big step towards vaccinating the world", boris johnson has said.
at the end of the g7 summit in cornwall, the pm said countries were rejecting "nationalistic approaches".
he said vaccinating the world would show the benefits of the g7's democratic values.
there was also a pledge to wipe out their contribution to climate change.
after the first meeting of world leaders in two years, mr johnson said "the world was looking to us to reject some of the selfish, nationalistic approaches that marred the initial global response to the pandemic and to channel all our diplomatic, economic and scientific might to defeating covid for good".
he said the g7 leaders had pledged to supply the vaccines to poor countries either directly or through the world health organization's covax scheme including 100 million from the uk.
the communique issued by the summit pledges to "end the pandemic and prepare for the future by driving an intensified international effort, starting immediately, to vaccinate the world by getting as many safe vaccines to as many people as possible as fast as possible".
it also includes steps to tackle climate change, with leaders re-committing to the target of reaching net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 at the latest and pledging to eliminate most coal power.
mr johnson rejected suggestions the vaccines pledge was a moral failure by the g7 as it was not enough to cover the needs of poorer countries.
he referred to the the uk's involvement in the development of the oxford-astrazeneca vaccine.
"already of the 1.
5 billion vaccines that have been distributed around the world, i think that people in this country should be very proud that half a billion of them are as a result of the actions taken by the uk government in doing that deal with the oxford scientists and astrazeneca to distribute it at cost," he said.
he added that "we are going flat out and we are producing vaccines as fast as we can, and distributing them as fast as we can".
the target to vaccinate the world by the end of next year would be met "very largely thanks to the efforts of the countries who have come here today", mr johnson said.
the leaders slightly exceeded their target of donating a billion covid vaccines to poorer countries within the next year, if funding for future doses is included alongside individual jabs.
there was also a commitment to build the frameworks to prevent and fight future pandemics.
elsewhere in the 25-page communique, there were several references to china, which president biden said was a change from previous meetings of the world's advanced economies.
pledges made this time included working together to respond to china's impact on world trade.
on the recovery from covid there was even a reference to prime minister boris johnson's trademark domestic policy the need to reduce inequalities by "levelling up".
charities and campaigners issued statements calling out vague promises and missed opportunities, but mr johnson will feel that post-brexit britain has staged a diplomatic show that was both competent and confident.
mr johnson also dismissed the suggestion that patents for vaccines should be waived in order to boost global supply, something which the us backed last month.
he said he wanted to protect "incentives for innovation" while building up manufacturing capacity, especially in africa.
elsewhere in their communique, g7 leaders also pledged to: the communique calls for a "timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based who-convened" investigation into the origins of covid-19.
us president joe biden has previously said the us intelligence community is split on whether coronavirus came from human contact with an infected animal or from a lab accident a theory rejected by china.
mr johnson said "the advice that we've had is it doesn't look as though this particular disease of zoonotic origin came from a lab", but he added: "clearly anybody sensible would want to keep an open mind about that".
french president emmanuel macron said the international community needed clarity about the origins of the virus but said it was up to the who to investigate.
with g7 countries accounting for 20% of carbon emissions, mr johnson said: "we were clear this weekend that action needs to start with us.
"but pressed on the lack of binding agreements and timetables, the prime minister says he will not "pretend our work is done" and he will be "on everybody's case" to make further progress ahead of the cop26 summit in scotland later this year.
kirsty mcneill from crack the crises, a coalition of charities and ngos including save the children and oxfam, said the g7 summit was a "historic missed opportunity" on covid-19 and climate change.
leaders arrived "with good intentions but without their cheque books", she said.
joanna rea, from unicef uk, said the g7 pledge on vaccines was "the beginning of the action required to end this pandemic" but called for a "rapid acceleration of dose sharing in the next three months to ensure millions of vaccines get to the people in countries who need them the most".
how significant are g7's climate pledges?in pictures: world leaders bask in cornwall sun at g7 summitg7 pledges climate action but disappoints activistsisrael's new pm bennett vows to unite nationhis pledge comes as his government is voted in, ending benjamin netanyahu's 12-year hold on power.
lockdown easing in england to be delayedg7 leaders promise one billion vaccine doseswhat putin really wants from bidenhow chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race'we make it or we die' video'we make it or we die'netanyahu: a shrewd leader who reshaped israeltech firms use remote monitoring to help honey beeswhat happened when the soviets tried to dig to the centre of the earth?the rebels working with islamic state in central africaformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star.
videoformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star'i lost my father and pregnant wife to covid'football phrases15 sayings from around the worldlockdown easing in england to be delayed1israel's new pm bennett vows to unite nation2what putin really wants from biden3whatsapp launches privacy campaign after backlash4china to g7: small groups do not rule the world5queen meets joe biden at windsor castle6how chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race7thousands join protests against catalan pardons8swiss voters reject key climate change measures9eriksen suffered cardiac arrest doctor10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
singapore (edgeprop) lego-style modular construction or prefabricated prefinished volumetric construction (ppvc) was intended to wean singapore's construction sector from its dependence on a foreign workforce.
it is faster, more efficient and environmentally friendly compared to conventional construction.
(see also: covid-19 catalyses digitalisation in construction)however, even ppvc specialists have not been spared the ravages of the covid pandemic.
they have been just as affected by the travel ban on long-term pass holders from india and bangladesh due to a surge in covid infections.
this immediately cut off the supply of construction workers from the two main source countries.
the ppvc method does not require as many workers onsite compared to a conventional construction site.
(picture: samuel isaac chua/the edge singapore)"based on my experience, the construction industry is facing a 20%-30% shortage in foreign manpower, and the situation is aggravated by the tighter border controls," says khor yew chai, director (ppvc) at dragages singapore, a member of bouygues constrution, a global leader in the building sector.
under the ppvc method, frameworks and modules are built in a factory off-site.
"we still need workers in these factories to produce the modules," adds khor.
"the difference is that with ppvc, we do not require as many workers onsite compared to a conventional construction site.
"dragages' modules are built in a factory located in johor, malaysia, before being transported to a factory in singapore to be assembled.
however, most of the construction materials are imported from overseas, especially china, notes khor.
"the rise in costs of sea transport and raw materials since last year is a challenge for contractors trying to complete their projects on schedule," he adds.
lego-style assembly onsite.
(picture: samuel isaac chua/the edge singapore)dragages is not alone.
many of the precast components are manufactured in malaysia, notes tan cheng chuah, managing director of construction professionals and pm link, two companies under cpg corp, a professional development consultancy firm.
malaysia entered a 14-day covid "total lockdown" with effect from june 1 to contain its daily infections.
it has since been extended by another two weeks to june 28.
"the initial movement control order and the current full movement control order have impacted the completion timelines for ongoing projects in singapore as precast factories in malaysia have to stop production and deliveries," continues tan.
"the result is that overall tender prices for construction projects have escalated by 20%-30% over the past year.
"productivity at construction sites has dropped due to the safe management measures (smm) introduced as part of the phase two (heightened alert) measures put in place from may 16 to june 13. the government is aware of the manpower shortage and subsequent knock-on effects on ongoing infrastructure and development projects.
in a speech at the orangetee business conference on may 24, the minister for national development, desmond lee, said: "[the tighter border controls] has significantly worsened manpower shortages in our construction sector, as south asian countries are where we recruit and hire most of our construction work permit holders.
"this is a double-blow for the construction industry, which had already been struggling with a manpower crunch since the start of the pandemic last year.
"we have been cautious in reopening our borders and have also been careful in bringing in migrant workers, to reduce the risk of importing the virus," adds lee.
"it's a difficult trade-off.
"the minister for national development, desmond lee, speaking at ​the orangetee business conference on may 24.
(picture: orangetee)last year, the government introduced a $1.
36 billion construction support package to help contractors bear part of the additional costs they had to incur due to construction delays and smm.
the government has stepped in with more support measures, including an additional 49-day extension for public-sector construction projects on top of the 122-day extension under the covid-19 (temporary measures) act, or cotma, last year.
contractors who have been awarded contract sums of up to $100 million will receive 0.
1% of the awarded contract sum for every month of delay as payment for non-manpower-related qualifying costs under cotma.
foreign worker levy rebates for work permit holders will be increased from $90 per worker per month to $250 per worker per month, from may to december 2021. to alleviate the manpower crunch, the government will temporarily allow new construction work-permit holders from china to enter singapore to work first and take their skills certification tests locally instead of in china.
"governmental support measures such as the jobs support scheme helped to a certain extent as they covered about 15%-20% of manpower cost.
in addition, the ex-gratia payment from the government for supporting material and equipment [purchases] also helped contractors," says chuck kho, deputy ceo of cpg consultants, which is part of cpg corp. kho: some of cpg consultants' clients have preferred to delay tenders due to concerns over funding, cost escalations, labour shortage, and the prolonged environment of heightened risk and uncertainty.
(picture: cpg corp. )a cotma law has been amended to allow construction companies in singapore to apply to the authorities for adjustments to contract sums so that project partners will more equitably share the burden of increased foreign manpower costs due to the covid pandemic.
"this is to ensure no single stakeholder group in the construction industry bears an undue share of the burden imposed by covid-19," said minister lee in parliament on may 11.
"the co-sharing mechanisms involve some documentation process and substantiation of the qualifying costs," says dragages' khor.
"the catch is that all parties involved — contractors, including subcontractors and suppliers — must have the same objective of sharing the cost.
"dragages has six ongoing projects in singapore, and is focused on completing four of them by the end of the year, for instance, the 613-unit condominium project, the garden residence; the 805-unit condominium, park colonial; and the grade-a office development, capitaspring.
khor yew chai, director (ppvc) at dragages singapore, a member of bouygues constrution, a global leader in the building sector.
ppvc specialists have not been spared the ravages of the covid pandemic.
(picturel dragages singapore)most ongoing construction projects in singapore however, are facing delays of between six and 12 months, says cpg consultants' kho.
further delays are likely, he cautions, "as overlapping problems cause a ripple effect across the industry".
for instance, some of cpg consultants' clients have preferred to delay tenders due to concerns over funding, cost escalations, labour shortage, and the prolonged environment of heightened risk and uncertainty, says kho.
for firms engaged in the built environment, the main cost component in project prolongation is inevitably manpower, notes tan of construction professionals.
besides more measures on manpower cost-sharing, another way to alleviate the rise in manpower costs is for a more flexible procurement method to cushion the uncertainty due to covid, he adds.
instead of an all-cost-inclusive construction tender or consultancy tender, for example, public agencies may consider including a provisional sum for costs that cannot be estimated or foreseeable in the short term, such as the costs of swab tests, prolongation costs, and the costs of implementation of mandatory smm, tan suggests.
tan: one option to solve the foreign worker crunch is to train a pool of local skilled workers to reduce the reliance on foreign labour.
(picture: cpg corp. )the covid-related construction delays is taking a toll on the finances of developers and contractors.
"if these delays are prolonged, it is likely that some of the smaller developers may face serious cashflow issues," warns chia ngiang hong, president of the real estate developers' association of singapore (redas).
one issue that most, if not all, developers are concerned about is the additional buyer's stamp duty (absd).
since the july 2018 property cooling measures, developers are subjected to a 30% absd, of which 5% is non-remittable.
developers were given a 12-month extension to the five-year project completion period last year, as part of cotma.
however, the absd period was only extended by six months, to 5.
5 years.
most of the government assistance to the industry, including the reprieve to the completion deadline, was handed out close to the onset of the pandemic last year, says redas' chia.
"if developers continue to face the threat of having to pay heavy penalties with regard to the absd on land cost, they will likely adopt a more conservative attitude when negotiating with contractors," he adds.
an extension of the developers' absd period will provide relief from "the time pressure" that developers and their contractors face, continues chia.
most ongoing construction projects in singapore are facing delays of between six and 12 months.
further delays are likely, as overlapping problems cause a ripple effect across the industry.
(picture: samuel isaac chua/the edge singapore)"the reality is that there is no easy solution while most singaporeans are not inclined to switch to manual labour professions, whether skilled or not," says cpg consultants' kho.
despite rapid technological advancements taking place in the construction sector, robotics and automation cannot completely displace workers — "at least not in the next 10 years", says construction professionals' tan.
one option to solve the foreign worker crunch is to train a pool of local skilled workers to reduce the reliance on foreign labour, adds tan.
adequate training and remuneration should be sufficient to entice local skilled construction workers to enter and stay in the industry, he argues.
"this should go hand in hand with the widespread adoption of ppvc technology and digitalisation as a long-term solution for singapore's built environment.
"check out the latest listings near the garden residence, park colonialsee also:singapore property for sale & rent, latest property news, advanced analytics toolsnew launch condo & landed property in singapore (complete list & updates)construction industry stakeholders call for safe and controlled entry of foreign workers[update] capacity limits for visitors to project sales galleries, resale propertiesbiomimicry: when nature and tech work togetheren bloc calculator, find out if your condo will be the next en-blochdb resale flats up for sale, affordable units availablethe national petroleum corporation of namibia ("namcor") and reconnaissance energy africa ltd.  (the "company" or "reconafrica") (tsxv: reco) (otcqx: recaf) (frankfurt: 0xd) are pleased to announce the execution of a joint operating agreement ("joa") to develop the resource potential of the kavango sedimentary basin, northeast namibia.
vancouver, british columbia and irvine, calif. , june 14, 2021 (globe newswire) -- powertap hydrogen capital corp.  (neo: move)(fwb: 2k6)(otc: motnf) ("powertap" or the "company" or "move") is pleased to announce that, further to its announcement on june 7, 2021, the company has completed its name change to "powertap hydrogen capital corp. ", effective as of the date hereof.
this name change is in conjunction with the company's transition to a single purpose hydrogen fueling technology company, prewall street legend whitney tilson says there's a huge new tech trend coming – and he's giving away his top pick for free right here.
monsters or a must?
venice tussles with return of cruise shipsthe arrival of the msc orchestra has rekindled tensions over the pros and cons of the giant vessels the msc orchestra, the first cruise ship to visit venice in 18 months, sails out of the city.
photograph: miguel medina/afp/getty imagesbiden already attended a summit of g7 rich democracies in britain over the weekend.
he will next join a meeting of nato national leaders in brussels on june 14, where he will meet turkish president tayyip erdogan.
that will be followed by a summit on june 15 with top eu officials in the bloc's political hub.
biden has vowed to rebuild relations with allies after four rocky years under former president donald trump, who pulled washington out of a global pact to fight climate change and threatened at one point to quit nato.
myanmar has been in turmoil since the junta seized power on feb.  1 and detained suu kyi and other senior members of her party, unleashing daily protests and fighting between the armed forces and ethnic minority guerrilla forces and militias.
suu kyi, 75, is due to face trial on monday on charges of breaching coronavirus regulations while campaigning for the election she won last november and also for possession of unlicensed walkie-talkies.
nobel laureate suu kyi also faces other more serious charges including intent to incite, breaching the official secrets act and charges for accepting $600,000 and 11.
4 kg worth of gold from yangon's former chief minister.
hiring the wrong financial advisor can wreak havoc on your investments and ruin your retirement.
however, this new tool is changing everything.
implementing a water-based parts washer from parts washer division of vital manufacturing into a parts washing operations is an excellent strategy to reduce environmental footprint.
surrey, british columbia, canada, june 13, 2021 (globe newswire) -- implementing a water-based parts washer from parts washer division of vital manufacturing inc.  into the operation of a business is an excellent strategy to reduce environmental footprint.
remove the grease, grime, and oil build up of necessary parts nformer australia captain boyd cordner has retired from rugby league because of the concussion symptoms that have kept him on the sidelines since last november.
cordner, who had his 29th birthday last week, announced his decision to retire on monday, days after abandoning his latest plan to return to the national rugby league for an 11th season with the sydney roosters.
the nrl has launched a severe crackdown on high tackles this season, resulting in record numbers of players being cautioned, sent off or suspended.
joe biden to use nato summit to atone for damage of trump yearsomens are favourable, but experts warn previous four years will have lasting consequences joe biden and nato's secretary general, jens stoltenberg, pictured in 2015.  photograph: michaela rehle/reutersthis small company behind it is sparking a potential 20,300% market surge.
click here for details.
gold prices slipped on monday to their lowest in more than a week, weighed down by a stronger dollar, while investors awaited cues from the federal reserve policy meeting this week with recent spikes in u. s.  consumer prices seen as a temporary blip.
spot gold was down 0.
6% at $1,864.
58 per ounce, as of 0311 gmt, its lowest since june 4.
"the market is starting to anticipate maybe a modest pivot towards discussing taper and it's sending investors into more of a either profit-taking or reducing gold and also currency positions," said stephen innes, managing partner at spi asset management.
cheika, who coached the waratahs from 2013 to 2015 and was linked with a return to the role after rob penney was fired in march, said the struggles faced by the team's inexperienced squad will strengthen them in the long run.
"there is a core group of players that are here at the waratahs right now that they need to keep and bring through," cheika told stan sport.
christchurch attacks: producer resigns from film they are us as criticism growsjacinda ardern says subject still feels 'very raw' amid ongoing accusations that film sidelines muslim victims of 2019 massacre jacinda ardern is to be played by rose byrne in the film they are us, about the christchurch mosque attacks in new zealand.
photograph: don arnold/wireimageget a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
matilda castren fired a 65 on sunday, capturing the mediheal championship by two strokes to become the first finnish player to win on the lpga tour.
greek tennis star stefanos tsitsipas has revealed that he learned of his grandmother's death just minutes before his epic five-set french open final loss to novak djokovic on sunday.
here's a list of happenings that are sure to bring a smile to your face, lift your heart and maybe even inspire you to take a positive action yourself!biggest stock market event in 20 years is almost here.
and the next 2 months could decide your wealth in 2021.  here's what to do now.
global shares held firm near record highs on monday while u. s.  bond yields flirted with three-month lows as investors expect the federal reserve to stick to its dovish mantra later this week.
globally, equity markets were basking in the prospects of a broadening economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and anticipation of continuity in dovish monetary policy from the u. s.  federal reserve.
the msci all-country world equity index, the u. s.  s&p 500 and the pan-regional stoxx europe 600 index all closed at record highs on friday.
certainly, the apprentice: one championship edition lived up to its billing as the toughest iteration of the show yet.
sixteen global candidates were subjected to taxing physical tasks and high-stakes business competitions for the better part of the past three months that truly, the best of the best came through and ended with jessica ramella .
.
.
continue reading "the apprentice: one championship edition's success to open more doors, says chatri"biden lavished praise on the 95-year-old british monarch after their private meeting which came at the conclusion of the group of seven leaders' summit at which he called for concerted action on china and ahead of a meeting with putin on wednesday.
"i don't think she'd be insulted but she reminded me of my mother, the look of her and just the generosity," biden, 78, told reporters shortly before departing london.
"she's extremely gracious, that's not surprising, but we had a great talk.
she wanted to know what the two leaders that i -- the one i'm about to meet with, mr putin, and she wanted to know about xi jinping, and we had a long talk.
"the monarch, attired in a bright pink floral outfit, had warmly greeted biden and his wife jill in the quadrangle of the castle, home to the royal family for nearly 1,000 years, where they were treated to a taste of british pomp.
the president inspected a guard of honour formed of the queen's company first battalion grenadier guards, which gave a royal salute, and the u. s.  national anthem was played before they entered the castle for tea.
"i said i wish we could stay longer, maybe we could hold the cars up a minute, and stuff.
anyway, she was very gracious," said the president who confirmed he had invited the monarch to the white house.
if you pay more than $99/month for power and own a home in texas, you better read this.
dubai earned a reputation for delivering luxury for those with cash to splash years ago, but amid the covid-19 pandemic, a new mode of travel has become popular -- yachts.
columbus, ohio, jun 14, 2021--washington prime group inc.  (nyse: wpg) today announced that it and certain of its subsidiaries have filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code in the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of texas (the "bankruptcy court").
the company enters chapter 11 after executing a restructuring support agreement (the "rsa") with creditors, led by svpglobal, that hold approximately 73% of the principal amount odenver had no answer for chris paul.
published: 3:04pm, 13 jun, 2021updated: 3:04pm, 13 jun, 2021

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                kota kinabalu: abu sayyaf sub commander injam yadahm, who is linked to cross-border kidnappings in sabah has been killed by philippines security forces.
also killed in a shootout at 2am sunday (june 13) was al-al sawadjaan, the younger brother of abu sayyaf sub-commander mundi sawadjaan, who was responsible for the jolo cathedral bombings two years ago.
the two were among four killed by the philippines military as they continued the pursuit for abu sayyaf leaders and foot soldiers, many of whom are linked to the notorious sawadjaan family, known to be holding kidnap victims at their patikul base in jolo island.
the two others killed in the sunday morning shootout have yet to be identified.
with the noose tightening on the group, intelligence sources said their numbers have been dwindling, with less than 50 active members as the rest have either been killed or run off since philippines president rodrigo duterte ordered an all-out war against abu sayyaf.
philippines joint task force (jtf) for sulu major gen william n.  gonzales said that they went into the area to serve a warrant to yadah at his house but were met with gunfire.
they also recovered a m653 carbine rifle, a.
45 calibre pistol, improvised explosive device components and 15 mobile phones.
yadah, who has also been involved in beheadings, has long been hunted by the philippines military.
he was a key player in the kidnap of five indonesian nationals taken from malaysian waters in january 2020.  the kidnap victims were rescued in tawi-tawi earlier this year.
tags / keywords:
abu sayyaf
                                                                ,
                                                                                                injam yadah
                                                                ,
                                                                                                philippines
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cross-border kidnapping



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a few hours before his final episode of running man aired on sunday (june 13), cast member lee kwang-soo posted a message on social media to his fans.
"thank you for running with me for 11 years," the 35-year-old actor-host wrote in his post, accompanied by photos of him with a bouquet of flowers, a cake and a certificate of completion.
lee had announced in april that he was leaving the wildly popular variety show due to an ankle injury he had sustained last year.
as he was one of the original cast members, the production team took pains to return to the same locations where running man had started filming in july 2010. another original cast member, comedian jee seok-jin, said: "even the staff members are sad for kwang-soo's final recording.
let's talk about him a lot today.
"lee then retorted: "you didn't say anything while we weren't recording, but as soon as the cameras turned on, you came out with that line ready.
"another cast member, yoo jae-suk, said jokingly: "you should rethink your decision.
if you say right now, 'i'm sorry', viewers would understand.
they'd think, 'that rascal', laugh and move on.
"he later added more seriously: "it will feel empty without you, but you should do all the things that you wanted to do now without worrying about us.
"singer kim jong-kook, who has also been with the show from the start, said: "it felt like we would go on like this forever without changing.
the regret is even stronger because it's kwang-soo, with whom i thought i would go until the end.
"even though we aren't able to go on with running man together anymore, let's go for the rest of our lives together.
"those who had worked with him behind the scenes also shared their fond memories of him on social media.
former producer-director lee hwan-jin posted on instagram on sunday: "from what i remember, kwang-soo never once told the producers 'no'.
"from continuing to film even when he had a broken toe to being soaked with water in the middle of winter while suffering from a cold, his dedication was noted by his co-workers over the course of filming 559 episodes.
another former producer-director jung chul-min wrote: "he always thought about the programme and his career rather than himself and showed such professionalism.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
sydney: australia's victoria state expects to announce a further easing of covid-19 restrictions this week, acting premier james merlino said on sunday (jun 13), as the state reported one new locally acquired infection for a second straight day.
the latest infection was a close contact of a previously reported case and had already been quarantined, victoria's health department said.
victoria recorded 92 cases in its latest wave of covid-19 infections, which triggered a two-week snap lockdown late last month.
the state emerged from the lockdown on friday as new cases declined, but some physical distancing rules remain.
"my expectation is by later in the week, we will be in a position to announce further easing of restrictions for regional victoria and .
.
.
for metropolitan melbourne," merlino said.
merlino added he was keen to get people back to attending sporting events and theatre, though he had no announcement to make yet in that regard.
under existing curbs, melbourne residents can only travel up to 25km from home while outdoor gatherings are limited to 10 people.
masks are required indoors and outdoors at all public spaces.
more than 3,000 primary close contacts of infected cases are already in quarantine with about 122 exposure sites listed on the victorian government website.
australia has fared much better than many other developed countries during the pandemic, with more than 22,300 local covid-19 cases and 910 deaths since march last year, mostly in victorian aged-care homes.
snap lockdowns, internal border controls and tough social distancing rules have helped it contain prior outbreaks.
new south wales and neighbouring queensland are on high alert after an infected woman and her husband travelled from victoria through several country towns in both states.
with no new cases on sunday, new south wales has not reported any locally acquired infection in more than a month, while queensland last reported cases in late march.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
dunk baitthe rushposted upmad betsthe bandwagonold baseball cardsposted upchris haynesyahoo sports college podcastdan wetzel, pat forde, pete thamelyahoo fantasy football podcastliz loza & matt harmonfantasy baseball podcastscott pianowskinfl podcastcharles robinson & terez paylorby sakura murakamitokyo (reuters) tokyo olympic organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organisers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organisers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organisers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)the first u. s.  swimmers qualified for the tokyo games at olympic trials on sunday.
four-time olympic medalist david boudia was 4.
45 points short of another games.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
california officials had argued that trump's decision to cancel funding for rail project "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion.
"it was definitely not big baby's finest moment.
"i feel like a new person.
doctors who haven't rotated in the icu in a while don't recognize me.
"get a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
the squad, a group of four us representatives that are women of color, are deeply unpopular among conservatives, so the attacks could help raise funds.
swimmer kaylee mckeown says the death of her father 10 months ago inspired her to break the 100-meter backstroke world record on sunday at the australian olympic trials.
the 19-year-old mckeown had a time of 57.
45 seconds at the south australian aquatic centre to improve on the previous mark of 57.
57 set by american regan smith in 2019.   mckeown's father sholto died last august from brain cancer.
ask scary mommy is scary mommy's advice column, where our team of "experts" answers all the questions you have about life, love, body image, friends, parenting, and anything else that's confusing you.
this week .
.
.
are you attracted to people you didn't think you'd be attracted to on your fyp on tiktok?
have your own questions?
[]excessive sleep disorder signs may be more subtle than you think.
check out narcolepsy warning signs and symptoms.
school districts across the united states are hiring additional teachers in anticipation of what will be one of the largest kindergarten classes ever as enrollment rebounds following the coronavirus pandemic.
as they await the arrival next fall of students who sat out the current school year, educators are also bracing for many students to be less prepared than usual due to lower preschool attendance rates.
"the job of the kindergarten teacher just got a lot harder," said steven barnett, senior co-director of the national institute for early education research at rutgers university.
clippers assistant chauncey billups is "definitely ready" to become a head coach, the clippers' tyronn lue said.
billlups might get his chance soon.
a 25-year-old man died sunday of injuries sustained in a mass shooting that wounded 13 other people in downtown austin, texas, the previous day, police confirmed.
driving the news: austin police named the victim as douglas john kantor, as they continued to search for one of two suspects.
one suspect was taken into custody on saturday following the shooting on 6th street, a popular area with bars and restaurants.
stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with axios markets.
substop surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
boris johnson is set to urge the public to accept "one last heave" to freedom as he delays the final step of lockdown reopening.
on sunday night the prime minister was finalising his plan to push back the june 21 reopening in england by up to four weeks owing to a surge in covid cases.
earlier in the day he had refused to rule out further delays in the future.
it means rules ordering the wearing of face masks, limiting groups to six people indoors and 30 outdoors, and keeping nightclubs shut area large splash can be seen when the ambulance hits the water.
the suspect was able to escape the vehicle and was taken into custody.
during the darkest days of the coronavirus pandemic, martha medina would occasionally slip into her shuttered store on los angeles' oldest street to ensure everything was secure.
colorful folklorico dresses from each of mexico's 32 states lined the walls.
brightly painted dia de los muertos folk art skulls and figurines were safely locked behind a glass case.
looking for a real relationship?
click here to view profiles and meet someone near you.
get started for free!in a recent interview, lonzo ball revealed he would have rather gone straight from high school to the nba rather than attend ucla.
teachers in more than 20 cities gathered to let g. o. p.  lawmakers know that they ain't down with attempts to dictate they can and can't teach in class.
don't add sugar.
sugar bowl via www.
shutterstock.
comchildren are manifesting increased rates of adult diseases like hypertension or high triglycerides.
and they are getting diseases that used to be unheard of in children, like type 2 diabetes and fatty liver disease.
so why is this happening?
everyone assumes this is the result of the obesity epidemic – too many calories in, too few out.
children and adults are getting fat, so they're getting sick.
and it is generally assumed that no one specifisearch for all inclusive resorts in mexico.
find great deals now, save money and timeas other progressives demand biden end bipartisan negotiations, sanders is instead working on the next package.
back in april, he shared the rare image and the story on his social media.
for once, can we consider the whale's side of the story?
carbis bay, england: group of seven (g7) leaders on sunday (jun 13) vowed to start delivering 1 billion doses of covid-19 vaccines and to step up action on climate change, in a summit call to arms by a revived democratic alliance that also confronted china and russia.
in a final communique issued at their first physical summit in nearly two years, the leaders of the elite club largely hewed to us president joe biden's push to regain the west's cohesion after the tumultuous era of his predecessor donald trump.
"we will harness the power of democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights to answer the biggest questions and overcome the greatest challenges," the leaders said.
but the pledge on vaccines for poorer nations fell drastically short of the 11 billion doses that campaigners say are needed to end a pandemic that has claimed nearly 4 million lives and wrecked economies around the globe.
"i'm afraid there will be smiles (at the g7) but they are not solutions," former british prime minister gordon brown told sky news, calling the summit "an unforgivable moral failure".
"millions of people will go unvaccinated and thousands of people i'm afraid will die," said brown, who helped coordinate international responses to the world's last major economic shock in 2008. likewise, the g7's pledges to deliver more aid for countries at the sharp end of climate change, and to phase out fossil fuel investments, were decried as too little, too late ahead of a un summit in november.
"the g7 have failed to set us up for a successful cop26 as trust is sorely lacking between rich and developing countries," said greenpeace international executive director jennifer morgan.
"we need authentic leadership and that means treating the pandemic and the climate crisis for what they are: an interconnected inequality emergency," she said.
"green industrial revolution"nevertheless, british prime minister boris johnson, the summit's host, said the g7 wanted to "drive a global green industrial revolution to transform the way we live".
"there is a direct relationship between reducing emissions, restoring nature, creating jobs and ensuring long-term economic growth," he said.
johnson also touted a g7 pledge to get 40 million more girls into schools over the next five years, as part of the post-pandemic reconstruction.
a white house official agreed the three-day gathering in cornwall, southwest england, had been an "unusually substantive and productive g7".
angela merkel, attending her last g7 as german chancellor, said biden had brought "new momentum" to efforts to tackle the world's problems.
india and south africa, who took part in the g7 talks as guests, had pressed for the gathering to waive intellectual property rights on western vaccines.
but britain and germany were notable holdouts on that.
campaigners also complained the g7 had failed to flesh out how it will pay for a newly agreed "nature compact" to protect 30 per cent of the world's land and oceans from despoliation by 2030. the leaders committed to nearly halve their carbon emissions by 2030, relative to 2010, and to phase out the use of "unabated coal" fuel whose emissions have not gone through any filtering "as soon as possible".
they vowed to end most government support for the fossil fuel sector overseas, and to phase out petrol and diesel cars.
the g7 had sharp words for beijing and moscow, in the build-up to a nato summit in brussels on monday and biden's first sit-down with russian president vladimir putin in switzerland on wednesday.
they demanded china end abuses including forced labour in xinjiang, where activists say up to 1 million people from uyghur and other muslim minorities are interned in camps, and in hong kong.
and they pressed china to let experts from the world health organization (who) investigate further how covid-19 first emerged, amid suspicions that the coronavirus may have escaped from a chinese laboratory.
the allies adopted a us initiative to counter china in infrastructure funding for poorer nations, promising to "collectively catalyse" hundreds of billions of investment.
thebuild back better world (b3w)project is aimed squarely at competing with beijing's trillion-dollar belt and road infrastructure initiative, which has been widely criticised for saddling small countries with unmanageable debt.
and the g7 demanded that russia "credibly explain" the use of chemical agents on its soil, end its "systematic crackdown" on opposition groups and media, and "hold to account" criminals waging ransomware attacks.
royal blessinga lingering row between britain and the european union over post-brexit trading arrangements in northern ireland hung over the talks.
but london sought to bring all sides together using the "soft power" diplomacy of queen elizabeth ii and her heir prince charles, at a friday night reception for leaders and eu chiefs.
joined on saturday by counterparts from australia, south africa and south korea with india also taking part remotely they then enjoyed an evening beach barbecue around fire pits, featuring a sea shanty band and toasted marshmallows.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
taipei: taiwan will be a "force for good" and continue to seek even greater international support, the presidential office said, after the chinese-claimed island won unprecedented backing from the group of seven of major democracies.
the g7 leaders on sunday (jun 13) scolded china over human rights in xinjiang, called for hong kong to keep a high degree of autonomy and underscored the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait.
taiwan presidential office spokesman xavier chang said this was the first time the g7 leaders' communique has stressed the importance of peace and stability in the strait and first time since its founding there was "content friendly to taiwan", expressing deep thanks for the support.
taiwan and g7 member countries share basic values ​​such as democracy, freedom, and human rights, he added.
"taiwan will certainly adhere to its role as a responsible member of the region, and it will also firmly defend the democratic system and safeguard shared universal values," chang said.
taiwan will continue to deepen its partnership with g7 states and other like-minded countries and strive for greater support from the international community, he said.
taiwan will also "firmly contribute the greatest force for good" for peace, stability, and prosperity in the indo-pacific region, chang added.
china has stepped up its pressure against democratically-run taiwan in recent months, with regular military drills near the island as it tries to assert beijing's sovereignty.
while most countries, including g7 members, have no formal diplomatic ties with taiwan, the grouping along with other western allies have been bolstering their backing for the island.
that includes calling for taiwan to be given proper access to the world health organization during the coronavirus pandemic.
taiwan is not a member due to chinese objections, which considers it merely one of its provinces with no right to the trappings of a state.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jakarta jakarta governor anies baswedan has warned that the indonesian capital may return to a strict restriction regime as coronavirus cases surged 50 per cent in the past week amid a rise of infections of the delta variant.
active cases in jakarta rose to 17,400 cases on sunday (june 13) from 11,500 on june 6.
"the capital is in a state that needs extra attention.
if the current situation gets out of hand, we would enter an emergency phase, and if that happened, we would have to take drastic steps like we did in september and february.
we do not want that to recur," mr anies said in a statement on monday morning.
the delta variant, first detected in india, has started to dominate cases in indonesian cities, including jakarta and kudus in central java province, a senior government official, who did not want to be named, told the straits times on sunday night.
health ministry spokesman siti nadia tarmizi told st that the genome sequencing tests on 34 samples collected from kudus showed that 28 of them were of the delta variant.
she did not elaborate.
bed occupancy rate for isolation wards reserved to treat covid-19 patients also increased to 75 per cent on sunday, from 45 per cent a week ago.
one out of four covid-19 patients in jakarta, however comes from outside the city, mostly the surrounding satellite towns.
mr anies urged residents to strictly comply with health protocols in order to avoid another round of strict social distancing restrictions.
currently, dining in in eateries is allowed with limited capacity, and non-essential staff are partially required to work from home.
the governor also stressed that the positivity rate in jakarta increased to 17 per cent on sunday, from 9 per cent the previous week.
the positivity rate indicates the percentage of positive covid-19 cases detected out of the total tests conducted.
the threshold set by the world health organisation (who) for adequate testing is a 5 per cent positivity rate.
mr anies pointed out that the testing rate in jakarta rose to eight times what the world health organisation recommended, from four times in the previous week.
he ordered all his personnel on sunday night to take stricter measures and to step up enforcement of the health protocols on individuals as well as in places.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
ways to search theedgemarkets.
com contentby title: @title "the edge malaysia"by author: @author "lucas wong"by category: @category "corporate" "hot stock" combine search:  "high speed rail" @author "bhattacharjee" @category "from the edge"searching either words : 1mdb mas searching all words : "genting berhad"searching chinese phrase : ""(june 14): asian stocks looked set for a muted start to the week as investors prepare for a key federal reserve meeting.
futures were little changed in japan.
trading volumes are expected to be light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were steady after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
45% after hitting three-month lows on thursday, but still notched their biggest weekly slide since december.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields on the retreat, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
these are some of the main moves in markets:we deliver news to your inbox daily© all rights reserved.
2020.  the edge communications sdn.
bhd.
we're in a position to experiment with methods other than lockdown to stop covid's spread — but it will take courage from authorities.
another lockdown done and dusted.
there must be no more, except in the most desperate of circumstances.
the devastating social impacts and dire economic consequences of forcing businesses to close, stopping kids going to school, keeping people locked in their homes and keeping family and friends apart, are now only too well known.
after four lockdowns we might know what to expect, but that doesn't make it any easier.
kids helpline recorded a 184 per cent increase in youth suicide attempts in victoria from december 2020 to may 2021 compared to one year earlier.
reasons for the surge included "the impact of isolation and lockdowns" and the "increased stress" of young people not being at school.
consequently, there has been an increase in young people trying to access community-based mental health services.
this was recognised by the state government last week with the immediate injection of $10m into critical mental health services.
after a record $3.
8bn investment in mental health announced in last month's budget, the extra $10m is small money.
but it is recognition that critical services need funding right now.
the government is no doubt feeling justified in locking victorians up for a fourth time.
modelling by the burnet institute, released last week, found that without the action up to 2000 victorians would have contracted covid-19 by august.
there can be no arguing the lockdown worked.
of course it did.
when people can't mix, the virus can't spread.
but there must be another way.
how can it be that after more than 15 months we're no more advanced at dealing with this virus?
fortunately, unlike so many countries around the world still dealing with uncontrollable levels of the virus, victoria is not in that position.
just two cases were discovered after more than 80 days of no locally acquired transmissions.
which leaves us in the unique position to be bold with our approach, and experiment with methods that don't force the state to grind to a halt.
but it will take courage from authorities to let life continue while putting out the spot fires that will no doubt continue to emerge.
victorian members of the committees for cities and regions are now calling on the state government to develop a long-term covid readiness plan.
they rightly point out staged restrictions and recovery road maps are too often inconsistently applied.
"this unpredictability of government decision-making contributes to the general unease in the community about unforeseeable restrictions that could be imposed upon victorians at any moment," they say.
"the lack of a clear and consistent approach to reopening and locking down victorian communities erodes business and consumer confidence to plan, resulting in damaging effects to local economies, community mental health outcomes and the reputation of victoria as the place to be.
"among other things they want "a common set of publicly available and industry-informed standards to be applied to decision-making on covid restrictions in victoria.
"the government has long kept the rationale behind its decision-making process secret, saying only it is based on "public health advice".
but increased transparency over the process will not only instil confidence, but could prompt a public debate about how to move forward.
and how to do so without another lockdown.
it beggars belief that four days after wild storms lashed parts of the state, tens of thousands of victorians remain in the dark.
more than 250,000 homes in storm damaged areas lost power last thursday.
thousands were last night still waiting for the lights to come back on.
in the middle of winter and with ongoing covid-19 restrictions in place, they've sat for days with no power, no lighting and for many, no heating.
the net of blame could be cast far and wide.
but ultimately, this is an act of god and the blame game serves little purpose.
what is hard to fathom is the virtual radio silence over the issue.
the fact that hundreds of thousands of people were left without power, lights and heating is nothing short of a disaster.
but the pandemic is all consuming.
the morning after the storms acting premier james merlino fronted the media to announce an easing of restrictions.
there was reference to the storms, but not much of substance.
energy minister lily d'ambrosio put out a series of tweets, and thanked energy companies for their efforts in restoring services to normal.
in normal times, it's hard to imagine ms d'ambrosio not fronting the media at least once, but probably multiple times, to update the community and instil a sense of confidence.
it begs the question: with such intense government focus on covid, what else is being ignored, or given less attention than it deserves?carrying on the business of government alongside a pandemic response has been a problem for governments the world over.
taxpayers should be concerned about the reintroduction of the virus, particularly through government error.
because every time covid-19 returns through a hotel quarantine breach or similar failure by authorities, the government is forced to again turn all attention to eliminating the scourge.
and that can only be to the detriment of other critical functions.
— shannon deery is herald sun state politics editorshannon deery is the herald sun's state political editor.
he joined the paper in 2007 and covered courts and crime before joining the politics team in 2020. to join the conversation, please
 log in.
don't have an account?
registerjoin the conversation, you are commenting as  logout
the bruce pascoe hoax is more proof that the abc is strangled by group-think, where only one opinion seems allowed.
"aboriginal historian" bruce pascoe's jig is up, with woke leftists now admitting he told untruths.
our apps
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using food delivery services will be extended by an additional month.
enterprise singapore yesterday said the food delivery booster package will support businesses and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run.
the package, which started on may 16 and subsidises part of businesses' delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. in addition, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. see the big story • delivery subsidies package for f&b firms gets extendedjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when mr raj started looking at pre-schools for his 13-month-old twins, he was hopeful they would have the chance to learn tamil, which is spoken by his family.
but the closest centre offering the mother tongue language was too far away, and did not have vacancies.
so the public servant and his wife settled for a nearby school that offered chinese as the lone mother tongue option.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jewel changi airport will reopen on monday, about a month after it was closed, as no new covid-19 infections linked to a large cluster at terminal 3 (t3) have been detected in the last three weeks.
this comes as other measures in the past month's heightened alert phase will also be eased, as singaporeans gradually return to working and living as before.
"deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed," the civil aviation authority of singapore and changi airport group said yesterday.
"(they) are on track to reopen safely and progressively.
"passenger terminal buildings remain closed to the public, however, and jewel's reopening is only the first of a phased process, with airport operations having undergone significant changes, including the segregation of about 14,000 airport workers into different risk zones.
this is to minimise the transmission risks revealed by the t3 cluster, which began at the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, where staff came into contact with passengers.
the cluster spawned 108 cases, 43 of whom were airport workers.
staff working in the highest-risk areas will have to wear personal protective equipment at all times, except when they are eating or resting.
inbound and outbound passengers will also no longer have opportunities to intermingle.
increased testing will become part and parcel of working life for some airport employees.
since may 23, those in higher-risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test between a seven-day routine polymerase chain reaction test.
some are now taking covid-19 breath tests as part of a small-scale pilot, with the airport authorities hoping that routine testing will be quicker and more comfortable for airport workers.
the disposable traciex breathalyser, which has just been approved by the health sciences authority, is non-invasive, has been shown by trials to be almost as accurate as the pcr test, and can generate results within two minutes.
it may eventually replace the antigen rapid tests for workers.
minister for transport s.  iswaran, who visited t3 yesterday, said the breathalyser could be a game changer, but still urged caution.
"we are using this opportunity to administer the trial in the airport, and we will continue to scale it up so that there is more data," he said.
"in the first instance, it is promising, but we need to do a lot of work, and i think the testing will continue and gather pace as we go forward.
"asked about the transport ministry's strategy for reopening borders, mr iswaran said it depends on circumstances here and in the countries singapore is engaging.
in singapore, factors to consider include how extensively and quickly the population is vaccinated, how widely available tests and testing facilities are, and if tracing of new cases remains effective.
the operations at changi airport as a point of entry are also critical, he said, and the airport authorities have fundamentally re-examined operations in the last few weeks.
he said singapore is in conversation with "many potential partners", including south korea, and that both hong kong and singapore remain fully committed to resuming their air travel bubble.
"right now, our engagement with all our partners has been on the various preparatory elements whether vaccination, testing or other kinds of protocols.
when the conditions are right, then we will be able to mobilise," he said.
see the big storyjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
chinese powerhouse psg.
lgd have been crowned as the newest major champions of the 2021 dota pro circuit (dpc) after they capped off a dominant run through the weplay animajor with a resounding 3-0 sweep over top north american team evil geniuses (eg) in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd had a blazing start to the animajor after they topped the group stage with a stellar 11-3 record, which earned them an upper bracket berth in the playoffs.
the chinese squad then cemented themselves as the heavy favourites to win the tournament after they defeated alliance, team nigma, and t1 to be the first team to reach the grand finals.
meanwhile, eg had to take the hardest road to the grand finals.
they barely managed to survive the group stage with a middling 7-7 record and had to start the playoffs from the lower bracket.
however, the north american squad were able to find their groove and tear through the lower bracket — besting the likes of noping esports, tnc predator, team nigma, and vici gaming — to survive to the last day of the animajor.
eg then outlasted t1 in the lower bracket finals to earn the right to challenge psg.
lgd in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd kicked off the grand finals with a bang as they absolutely dominated eg in a 33-minute game oen behind wang "ame" chunyu's carry axe and cheng "nothingtosay" jin xiang's mid razor.
ame and nothingtosay combined for 23 kills and 22 assists against zero deaths between the two of them to pace psg.
lgd's 30-6 kill lead by the time their opponents called gg.
eg put up a better fight in game two, as they dominated the early game behind an excellent showing from abed azel "abed" yusop on storm spirit.
however, psg.
lgd were able to repel their opponents' pushes and delay the game long enough for ame's terrorblade to become the strongest hero in the map.
even abed's series-high 14 kills against just two deaths on his storm spirit was not enough to stop psg.
lgd from taking a commanding 2-0 series lead after 47 minutes of action.
psg.
lgd sensed blood in the water in game three, as they looked to overwhelm eg with relentless aggression behind their dominant team fight tri-core of naga siren for ame, death prophet for nothingtosay, and an offlane axe for zhang "faith_bian" ruida.
despite eg's best efforts to hold on, psg.
lgd could not be denied from forcing the gg call at the 36-minute mark to secure their victory in the grand finals with a clean 3-0 series sweep.
with their victory, psg.
lgd claim the championship of the weplay animajor as well as the grand prize of us$200,000 and 500 dpc points.
this is now the third dpc major championship for ame and the psg.
lgd organisation, who won their first two major championships back-to-back at epicenter xl and the mdl changsha major in april and may 2018. meanwhile, eg bow out of the weplay animajor in second place and with us$100,000 and 450 dpc points in consolation.
it is the second time that the north american team have fallen short of a major championship in the 2021 dpc at the hands of chinese opponents.
back in april, eg were defeated by chinese team invictus gaming in the grand finals of the one esports singapore major in a dramatic 3-2 reverse sweep.
with the conclusion of the weplay animajor, the 2021 dpc will soon be reaching its climax with the international 10 (ti10) in stockholm, sweden this august.
psg.
lgd and eg will be among the 18 teams competing in the latest iteration of dota 2's annual world championship tournament, where the aegis of champions and the lion's share of a massive us$40 million prize pool will be at stake.
wang "ame" chunyucheng "nothingtosay" jin xiangzhang "faith_bian" ruidazhao "xinq" zixingzhang "y`" yipingartour "arteezy" babaevabed azel "abed" yusopdaryl "iceiceice" kohandreas "cr1t-" nielsental "fly" aizikread also:weplay animajor playoff preview: the race for ti10 direct invitesweplay animajor: everything you need to knowfor more esports news updates, visit https://yhoo.
it/yahooesportssea and check out yahoo esports southeast asia's facebook page and twitter.
check out esports videos from yahoo tv:it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
liver cancer indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at liver cancer warning signs and symptoms.
moscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
singapore: a scheme to help f&b businesses defray the costs of providing food delivery services and going online has been extended by a month until jul 15, enterprise singapore said on sunday (jun 13).
since it was re-introduced on may 16, the food delivery booster package has benefitted more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling.
the scheme was introduced in april 2020 during singapore's "circuit breaker" period and removed as restrictions eased.
it has been made available again to boost support for f&b businesses during a tough period for the industry, ms low said.
there are now 13 partners supporting this scheme after seven companies were brought on board -food delivery platform bungkus and third-party logistics players chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
"in particular, the extension and expansion of the government's food delivery booster package .
.
.
seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on jun 21," ms low added.
from now until jul 15, enterprise singapore will fund 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by the four food delivery platforms bungkus, deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood.
the agency will also fund 20 per cent of the delivery costs for food delivery orders made through the nine third-party logistic partners currently supporting the initiative.
"the dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for our f&b sector," ms low said, adding that food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal.
citing department of statistics data, enterprise singapore said the covid-19 pandemic and changing consumer preferences have boosted the demand for food delivery services.
for the f&b sector, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
f&b businesses have also been relying on the scheme to diversify their operations by providing food delivery services.
"based on preliminary estimates from the first two weeks of phase 2 (heightened alert) from may 16 to may 29, the daily average number of online food deliveries supported under the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher than the daily average during the circuit breaker last year," enterprise singapore said.
ms low said the scheme "will place our f&b establishments in a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
tokyo olympic organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
tokyo:     tokyo olympic organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organisers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organisers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organisers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
carbis bay, england: growing tensions between britain and the european union threatened to overshadow the group of seven summit's conclusion on sunday (jun 13), with london accusing france of "offensive" remarks that northern ireland was not part of the united kingdom.
ever since the united kingdom voted to leave the european union in 2016, the two sides have been trying to work out how to deal with post-brexit trade and the british province, which has a land border with eu member ireland.
ultimately, the talks keep coming back to the delicate patchwork of history, nationalism, religion and geography that intertwine in northern ireland, but the latest spat over the brexit divorce deal is centred on sausages.
during talks with emmanuel macron at the g7 summit, british prime minister johnson queried how the french president would react if toulouse sausages could not be sold in paris markets, echoing london's accusation that the eu is preventing sales of british chilled meats in northern ireland.
british media reported that macron responded by inaccurately saying northern ireland was not part of the united kingdom, remarks british foreign minister dominic raab described as "offensive".
"various eu figures here in carbis bay, but frankly for months now and years, have characterised northern ireland as somehow a separate country and that is wrong," raab said.
"it is a failure to understand the facts.
we wouldn't talk about catalonia and barcelona, or corsica in france in those ways," he told the bbc's andrew marr programme.
trade war?in a move that some worry could provoke a full-scale trade war, johnson has threatened to invoke emergency measures in the northern ireland protocol of the brexit divorce deal if no solution is found to the so-called "sausage war".
that protocol essentially kept the province in the eu's customs union and adhering to many of the single market rules, creating a regulatory border in the irish sea between the british province and the rest of the united kingdom.
but johnson has already delayed the implementation of some of its provisions, including checks on chilled meats moving from the mainland to northern ireland, saying it was causing disruption to some supplies to the province.
a french diplomatic source said macron had been taken aback by johnson bringing up sausages which the british leader had said was a crucial issue but one the french regarded as a distraction from the main business at the g7 leaders' gathering.
the president had merely been pointing out the sausage comparison was invalid due to the geographic differences, the source said.
repeatedly questioned at a news conference about macron's comments during their talks, johnson said brexit had occupied a "vanishingly small proportion of our deliberations" during the summit in carbis bay, which ended on sunday.
"we will do whatever it takes to protect the territorial integrity of the uk but actually what happened at this summit was that there was a colossal amount of work on subjects that had absolutely nothing to do with brexit," he said.
macron told reporters at the g7's conclusion the two sides should stop wasting time on disputes about sausages.
"my wish is that we succeed collectively in putting into action what we signed several months ago," he said.
"let's not waste time with controversies that are created in corridors and backrooms.
"he said france had never taken "the liberty to question the sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the united kingdom".
despite a u. s. -brokered 1998 peace deal that brought an end to three decades of violence, northern ireland remains deeply split along sectarian lines: many catholic nationalists aspire to unification with ireland while protestant unionists want to stay in the uk.
the eu does not want northern ireland to be a backdoor into its single market and neither side wants border checks between the province and the republic of ireland which could become a target for dissident militants.
instead, the two sides agreed to the protocol, which provides for checks between the province and the rest of the united kingdom, though britain now says these are too cumbersome and divisive.
johnson said on saturday he would do "whatever it takes" to protect the uk's territorial integrity.
"it is time for the government to stop talking about fixes to the protocol and get on with taking the necessary steps to remove it," said edwin poots, leader of democratic unionist party, northern ireland's largest political party.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
wellington: new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern on monday (jun 14) criticiseda planned movieabout her response to the 2019 christchurch mosque attacks as poorly timed and focussed on the wrong subject.
the us-backed film they are us has sparked an intense backlash among new zealand muslims, with community leaders slamming the project for pushing a "white saviour" narrative.
ardern said the attacks when a white supremacist gunman ran amok at two mosques during friday prayers, killing 51 and seriously injuring another 40 remained "very raw" for many new zealanders.
she said filmmakers had not consulted her about the movie, which is set to star australia's rose byrne as the centre-left leader.
"in my view, which is a personal view, it feels very soon and very raw for new zealand," ardern told tvnz.
"and while there are so many stories that should be told at some point, i don't consider mine to be one of them they are the community's stories, the families' stories.
"ardern won widespread praise for her empathetic and inclusive handling of the attacks, the worst mass shooting in modern new zealand history, including wearing a scarf when meeting mourners.
the movie's title references a line from a speech she gave in the immediate aftermath of the atrocity when she pledged to support the muslim community and tighten gun laws.
a petition from the national islamic youth association calling for the production to be shut down has gathered more than 58,000 signatures.
the association said the proposed film "sidelines the victims and survivors and instead centres the response of a white woman".
it said the muslim community had not been properly consulted about the project, which has been scripted by new zealand writer andrew niccol.
"entities and individuals should not seek to commercialise or profit from a tragedy that befell our community, neither should such an atrocity be sensationalised", association co-chair haris murtaza said.
muslim poet mohamed hassan said the filmmakers needed to focus on members of the community that bore the brunt of the attacks, not use them as props in a feel-good story about ardern.
"you do not get to tell this story.
you do not get to turn this into a white saviour narrative.
this is not yours," he tweeted.
the attacker, australian self-declared white supremacist brenton tarrant, was jailed for life without parole last year, the first time a whole-of-life term has been imposed in new zealand.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
as of sunday noon (13 jun), the ministry of health (moh) has preliminarily confirmed an additional 13 cases of covid-19 infection in singapore.
this brings the total number of infection cases to 62,279. there are 10 new cases of locally transmitted covid-19 infection.
eight are linked to previous cases, amongst whom five have already been placed on quarantine, and three were detected through surveillance.
the remaining two cases are currently unlinked.
"based on our investigations so far, the cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories," said moh.
in addition, there are three new imported cases, who had been placed on stay-home notice (shn) upon arrival in singapore.
of these, two are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the ministry will share further updates in its press release tonight.
according to last night's press release, there are currently 125 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
of these, most are stable or improving, and one is in critical condition in the intensive care unit (icu).
266 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
these are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19.
34 have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
carbis bay: britain and the european union showed little sign of defusing a post-brexit trade dispute on saturday (jun 12), with both sides repeating their opposing positions even after us president joe biden encouraged them to find a compromise.
since britain completed its exit from the eu late last year, relations between the two have soured, with both accusing the other of acting in bad faith over part of their brexit divorce deal that covers border issues with northern ireland.
at a group of seven summit in southwestern england, a meeting of the world's largest advanced economies, prime minister boris johnson held talks with french president emmanuel macron, german chancellor angela merkel and top eu officials ursula von der leyen and charles michel.
the eu told london once again that it must implement the brexit deal in full and introduce checks on certain goods moving from britain to its province of northern ireland.
britain again called for urgent and innovative solutions within the part of the deal called the northern ireland protocol.
"both sides must implement what we agreed on," von der leyen, european commission president, said after meeting johnson alongside michel, the european council president.
"there is complete eu unity on this," she said, adding that the deal had been agreed, signed and ratified by both johnson's government and the bloc.
johnson's spokesman responded: "the pm (prime minister) in all cases (expressed) confidence in the uk's position as regards to the northern ireland protocol and the desire for pragmatism and compromise on all sides.
"although there was no sign of a narrowing of positions, the threats of last week over the so-called "sausage wars" were absent.
an eu official said there was a feeling the rhetoric needed to be toned down.
since britain exited the bloc's orbit, johnson has unilaterally delayed the implementation of some provisions of the protocol, including checks on chilled foods such as sausages moving from the mainland to northern ireland, saying it was causing disruption to some supplies to the british province.
the united states has expressed grave concern the dispute could undermine the 1998 good friday peace deal.
that agreement largely brought an end to the "troubles" three decades of conflict between irish catholic nationalist militants and pro-british protestant "loyalist" paramilitaries in which 3,600 people were killed.
brexitthough brexit was not part of the formal agenda for the g7 summit in the english seaside resort of carbis bay, it has more than once threatened to cloud the meeting.
france's macron offered to reset relations with britain as long as johnson stood by the brexit deal a characterisation of the meeting that was rejected by the british team.
brexit has strained the situation in northern ireland.
the province has an open border with eu member ireland so the northern ireland protocol was agreed as a way to preserve the bloc's single market after britain left.
the protocol essentially kept the province in the eu's customs union and adhering to many of the single market rules, creating a regulatory border in the irish sea between the british province and the rest of the united kingdom.
london says the protocol is unsustainable in its current form because of the disruption to some goods supplies.
the pro-british "unionist" community in northern ireland say they are now split off from the rest of the united kingdom and the brexit deal breaches the 1998 peace deal.
but the open border between the province and ireland was a key principle of good friday deal.
biden, who is proud of his irish heritage, has made clear that any steps that imperilled the peace agreement would not be welcomed by washington.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                medicinal personnel wait before taking the moderna vaccination against the covid-19 coronavirus at taipei tzu chi hospital in new taipei city on june 9, 2021.  afp
tags / keywords:
taiwan
                                                                ,
                                                                                                several
                                                                ,
                                                                                                people
                                                                ,
                                                                                                scholar
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sueing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tsai
                                                                ,
                                                                                                for
                                                                ,
                                                                                                misusing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19 issue



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
by mary mrad for daily mail australia  published:  23:59 edt, 12 june 2021   |  updated:  01:03 edt, 13 june 2021    8view  commentsthe family of a woman killed during the christchurch terror attack in 2019 are urging rose byrne not to star in a new film about the massacre.
the australian actress, 41, has been cast as new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern in upcoming film they are us.
according to the new zealand herald, the family of victim linda armstrong has contacted rose and asked her to refuse the role.
'it's too soon': christchurch mosque massacre victims have urged australian actress rose byrne (pictured) to refuse a role in a new film about the attackthe film follows arden in the wake of the tragic christchurch mosque shootings.
at the time, ms ardern was commended for her response to the two consecutive mass shootings.
'we know that a movie being made about what happened on that dreadful day is inevitable, however for now it is too soon,' linda's nephew kyron gosse wrote.
'it was only 27 months ago that i had to google my aunt's name to see if she was alive or dead.
it was only 27 months ago that i stood in her grave, lowering her lifeless body into the ground.
please, give us time.
''this is not the story': the australian actress has been cast as new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern (pictured) in upcoming film they are uskyron continued: 'the time will come for this story to be told.
when the right time does arrive, it is important that the right story is told, a story that focuses on the true heroes of the day.
''now is not the time, and this is not the story.
please, turn down the role and give us time to heal.
'a petition has also been launched by families of the victims calling for production to be cancelled, and has received over 47,000 signatures so far.
letter: the family of victim linda armstrong has reportedly contacted rose and asked her to refuse the role'the film centres white voices and therefore will continue to white-wash the horrific violence perpetrated against muslim communities,' the petition said.
the christchurch terrorist attack was carried out by gunman brenton tarrant who killed 51 people.
tarrant entered the al noor mosque as friday prayers were beginning and opened fire before driving to linwood mosque on the other side of the city where he continued shooting.
tarrant, a white supremacist originally from australia, was arrested a short time later.
he pleaded guilty to all charges and was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole on august 27 this year.
the film follows arden in the wake of the tragic 2019 christchurch mosque shootings.
at the time, ms ardern was commended for her response to the two consecutive mass shootings 
	    share what you think
          the comments below have been moderated in advance.
the views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of mailonline.
by posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual  we will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on mailonline.
to do this we will link your mailonline account with your facebook account.
we'll ask you to confirm this for your first post to facebook.
you can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to facebook.
your details from facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our privacy policy.
published by associated newspapers ltdpart of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all 182 stalls in 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre have been closed from sunday (june 13) for cleaning after two covid-19 cases were detected there.
the market and hawker centre will be closed till tuesday.
tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira on saturday said the tanjong pagar town council, the national environment agency and the bukit merah view merchants' committee are "engaging stallholders at the market and hawker centre to inform them of the closure and to assist with any queries".
"we are also putting up notices around the neighbouring estate to inform residents of the closure," she wrote in a facebook post.
ms pereira told the straits times that stallholders were understanding of the need to close the market for cleaning.
"some asked if there would be any forms of assistance that they could tap in the meantime.
we are currently working with the relevant agencies to ensure that relevant information on any assistance available can be relayed to the stallholders," she added.
an 82-year-old singaporean woman who regularly helps out at a sundry store at the market and hawker centre tested positive.
she is the second case detected there, after a 74-year-old singaporean man who was fully vaccinated and works at a sundry store.
st has asked the ministry of health (moh) if they work at the same sundry store.
moh on saturday said the woman, who has also received both doses of the covid-19 vaccine, developed a fever and shortness of breath last thursday and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic the next day.
she was isolated upon testing positive for an antigen rapid test.
the polymerase chain reaction test later came back positive.
her serology test is still pending.
moh reported nine community cases on saturday and nine imported cases.
these took singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published: 9:00pm, 13 jun, 2021updated: 9:00pm, 13 jun, 2021
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62,276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
more details will be announced on sunday night.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
loading.
.
.
saturday, 12 jun 2021 06:22 pm myt

as of june 9, singapore has vaccinated around 44 per cent of its population with at least one dose of the pfizer-biontech or moderna vaccines.
three in four seniors above 60 have had their jabs or booked an appointment.
― photo by ili nadhirah mansor fo

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
singapore, june 12 — mr jake goh, 51, a principal of a privately-run pre-school, does not mind it when people label him as a conspiracy theorist or an anti-vaccine advocate.
"whether i am a conspiracy theorist or not, time will tell.
i'm not trying to argue with people, i'm just here to offer an alternative view.
if they decide to let their children be jabbed, i can only warn them," said mr goh.
he is an admistrator of two telegram groups that discuss covid-19 and vaccine injuries, each with thousands of members surfacing claims that the two authorised vaccines here — pfizer-biontech and moderna — have caused serious side effects such as stroke.
this is despite the fact that the singapore government has authorised the pfizer-biontech vaccine for teens aged 12 to 15, with an expert committee and the health sciences authority (hsa) assessing that the vaccine is safe and efficacious to use for this group.
"you can gather a lot of knowledge from the internet.
not everything the doctor says about vaccines is correct," said mr goh.
mr goh was not always so radical, having dutifully received flu jabs and other types of vaccines in the past.
his transformation to become an anti-vaccine advocate began last year during the pandemic, after reading articles about the drug industrial complex behind cholesterol research.
nowadays, he gets his information from youtubers who discuss health issues and have a wide following, as well as from health journals that he reads to "get to the source" directly.
after all, newspapers can be biased, he claimed.
his contrarian views have led to conflicts with people around him.
his best friends removed him from their facebook friends list because his anti-vaccine posts have become "too extreme" lately.
his sister, who lives in france where some 110,000 people have died from covid-19, often chides him for telling others not to get the jab when he has not seen firsthand how horrific the disease can become outside of singapore.
but he is immovable in his radical belief that a good vaccine is not available because their development is rushed: "people say i believe in conspiracy theories, that i am an anti-vaxxer, that i am crazy.
oh yes, i get that a lot.
"mr goh is not the only one who has been socially distanced this way during the pandemic.
artist zelda, 34, has also seen her family ties and long-standing relationships strained or severed, as a result of her wild and unsubstantiated claims — such as one proclaiming that vaccines are part of a money-grubbing conspiracy by the "global public health mafia".
first, it was with her father, who reads the newspapers and has been vaccinated, and whom she often had heated arguments with.
to her, official narratives from governments and experts obscure the truth, while alternative viewpoints from youtube commentators deserve to be heard.
then, the fallout also spread to her close friends, whom she has known for decades, after she began sharing articles depicting covid-19 as a lab-made bioweapon, and defending these articles when her friends challenged her.
sick of arguing whenever zelda shares articles about such theories on their mutual chat groups, some of her childhood friends have since shut her out of their lives.
she declined to give her full name.
wistfully, one of these friends told today: "she was always the first one to diffuse an argument.
but now she believes so much in this that she's willing to just abandon friends over it.
"speaking to today, zelda recounted how voicing out these "alternative facts" during the pandemic had caused people around her to blow a fuse.
with her father, she no longer desires to discuss such theories at the dinner table.
"we just say hello and good morning, that sort of thing.
it's much healthier this way.
""in this pandemic, it is quite sobering that the things that we believe in shape us, down to the relationships that we have," she added, referring to how she is no longer on talking terms with some of her friends.
as singaporeans, and people elsewhere, suffer from an information overload regarding covid-19 — where fact, fiction and half-truths abound — it takes patience and effort to engage people with strongly held beliefs that are based on falsehoods, sid ms tin pei ling, member of parliament (mp) for macpherson.
"(they) could have good intentions too.
but if one shuts them out completely, it means there are no more chances to give them the right facts, and does not give you the opportunity to understand each other better," the chairperson of the government parliamentary committee for communications and information said.
beyond that, misinformation about the virus has far more serious implications as it could waylay singapore's pandemic plans, experts said.
as of june 9, singapore has vaccinated around 44 per cent of its population with at least one dose of the pfizer-biontech or moderna vaccines.
three in four seniors above 60 have had their jabs or booked an appointment.
but along with this progress, the number of incidents involving misinformation has also increased lately, some noted.
there have been three incidents about coronavirus-related falsehoods requiring the use of singapore's fake news law, the protection from online falsehoods and manipulation act (pofma), in the span of a month from april to may, noted mr ryan lim, founding partner of digital management consultancy qed consulting.
on june 8, health minister ong ye kung acknowledged these issues playing out on social media that had cast doubt on the safety of covid-19 vaccines, claiming that mrna vaccines, such as pfizer's and moderna's, do not work.
he was referring to a petition by 12 doctors, who had disagreed with the government's decision to roll out mrna vaccines, and also discouraged parents from vaccinating their children.
eleven of the doctors later retracted their statement, and the authorities as well as a number of other infectious diseases experts were quick to respond to these vaccine claims.
while the viral situation is under control in singapore presently, dr shashi jayakumar, head of s rajaratnam school of international studies' centre of excellence for national security (cens), warned that the covid-19 situation could very well turn critical again for singapore.
and if it does, and if trust in the state and institutions is shaken as a result, malicious rumours, falsehoods, half-truths and misinformation would be back to plague singapore's pandemic response once again.
"we are starting from a good position now.
but hypothetically, if there is wave after wave of infections, and lockdowns after lockdowns are needed, that would be the fertile ground for malicious misinformation to proliferate," he said.
fact, fiction and the unknowntracing the roots of misinformation to their sources would likely reveal one of several motivations behind its spread: these include political and ideological reasons, commercial profit, mischief, but also cases of genuine misunderstanding, said experts.
qed's mr lim said: "such false content tends to thrive in an environment with a high degree of anxiety and ambiguity.
the successful spread will create a vicious circle that encourages more of such content to be created.
"to date, pofma has been used in 14 separate instances concerning covid-19-related falsehoods.
but the amount of misinformation being spread during the pandemic is far more numerous than those flagged by the fake news law, which on its own, is insufficient to stop people from believing these claims, said experts.
associate professor alton chua from the wee kim wee school of communication and information at nanyang technological university said that while pofma is designed to nip the spread of falsehood in the bud, it is no silver bullet when it comes to shaping beliefs.
people can also suffer from confirmation bias, choosing to interpret information in a way that conforms to their existing beliefs, he said.
that means that those who are sceptical about covid-19 vaccines, for example, tend to exaggerate reports they come across about post-vaccination complications.
"the mindset of 'better be safe than sorry' is ironically what compels these people to share untruths," he said.
fast-evolving pandemic conducive for misinformationwhen it comes to covid-19, however, the scientific nature of the coronavirus and vaccines renders it hard for people to make their own conclusions about the science.
thus, it is key that people can turn to experts with the right credentials and experience to help them sort fact from fiction.
what makes this pandemic a perfect storm for misinformation to be reinforced and spread is because it concerns a new virus, fast-emerging viral strains, and cutting-edge vaccines that will take time to fully understand them.
and with science still playing catch-up with an evolving disease, there is a danger that misinformation can fill in the void and could even foster mistrust of scientific methods.
dr carol soon and mr shawn goh from the institute of policy studies (ips) at the lee kuan yew school of public policy said that a study they conducted last year had found that false information relating to health and medicine was second out of 11 topics that were most frequently believed by singaporeans.
falsehoods about international and foreign affairs came out tops in the study.
falsehoods on vaccine safetydr soon and mr goh warned that they have observed increasingly active forms of "online mobilisation" among people who circulate unverified information or mistruths about covid-19 vaccine safety and its purported side effects.
the ips researchers observed that people have been setting up facebook groups to share misinformation, and creating google forms to solicit stories and cases of vaccine injuries, often without the full context.
"mobilisation is also taking place in closed-group platforms such as whatsapp and telegram.
the end-to-end encryption technology that undergirds instant messaging apps hinders timely misinformation detection and debunking," they said.
mr jake goh, who runs one such group on telegram, claimed that its purpose is to create awareness because "transparency is needed in public health", so that the public can make an informed decision about vaccines.
"we are filling the gap that the ministry of health and all the relevant authorities are not providing or not announcing," he said.
he claimed that his vaccine scepticism is backed by his own research into the clinical trial data of existing vaccines.
the hsa reported in may that out of the 3.
7 million vaccine doses administered until may 23, there were 157 reports of serious adverse effects such as anaphylaxis, but no deaths have been linked to the vaccines so far.
on this, ips' dr soon and mr shawn goh said that it is often the case that those who go the extra mile to look up information on vaccine efficacy may end up reinforcing their own beliefs.
"their false beliefs may be reinforced when they draw invalid conclusions from scientific studies without a full appreciation of their robustness, or if they turn to 'scientific journals' that are not actually recognised by the expert community," they said.
referring to these online mobilisation efforts, dr soon and mr shawn goh added: "without intervention, these online spaces allow anti-vaccine views to fester and gain perceived legitimacy as they grow in size.
"establishing links between vaccines and deaths: what public needs to understandexperts stressed the importance in trusting the scientific method — that conclusions can only be reached after observations, experiments and measurements are done.
professor teo yik ying, dean of the saw swee hock school of public health, said that there is a clear difference between proof of absence and the absence of proof.
it is one thing to issue a statement such as "in all the participants in the clinical trials, we have not observed a death event", as opposed to "this vaccine does not cause death in anyone who takes it", he said.
"there is a need to systematically review the evidence of any mortality event that is suspected to be linked to the vaccine to understand whether taking the vaccine caused the fatality," he added.
because proper science takes time, it thus falls to a close partnership among responsible scientists, responsible media and trusted public agencies to be agile in responding to fake news in the meantime, he said.
all three parties are essential to this effort, since no single stakeholder holds all the cards needed to combat fake news.
the media and fact-checking organisations, for example, do not have the complete information needed to deal with complex scientific problems, but they should have access to trusted experts and policymakers to distill the information for the public.
this also means people should be wary of scientists who are not properly informed themselves, as well as irresponsible ones who could have been generating and spreading misinformation, said prof teo.
orchestrated disinformation campaignsanother aspect of misinformation concerns the threat of state-led disinformation campaigns, in the light of efforts by some countries to promote "vaccine diplomacy".
china, for example, is donating vaccines to regions where its competition with the us for influence is intense, reported reuters news agency.
the us has also announced its plans to donate 500 million doses of vaccines to the developing world, including in asia.
but could vaccine diplomacy also take on a more aggressive stance, such as by resorting to disinformation campaigns to discredit another country's vaccine?
are such efforts already underway in singapore?it is possible, though drawing a link between a falsehood and a state-originated disinformation campaign is difficult, said ms dymples leong, a senior analyst at cens.
she noted that there has been misinformation revolving not just around vaccines in general, but also certain vaccines in particular.
asked whether vaccine geopolitics are at play in singapore, cens' dr jayakumar said there is no doubt that vaccine diplomacy is now an important "calling card" of national soft power, so there are tensions whenever that soft power is being undermined.
he said that messages of indeterminate origin have been bandied around on social media creating fear about certain vaccine types, though he agreed with ms leong that it is not easy to conclude that these are state-led efforts.
nevertheless, singapore is also being closely watched for what vaccines it buys and uses for its national vaccination programme, he added.
"it is universally recognised that when we choose certain vaccines, questions may be asked as to why we did not choose another one," said dr jayakumar.
the first batch of pfizer-biontech vaccines arrived in singapore on dec 21, 2020.  singapore is also being closely watched for what vaccines it buys and uses for its national vaccination programme, said cens' dr jayakumar.
― photo by raj nadarajan for

greater transparency, engagement the antidote?with such a wide spectrum of motivations behind the spread of misinformation, tackling pandemic falsehoods is a challenging task for any government, said experts.
singapore cannot ignore malicious falsehoods, lest they take hold in society, said those interviewed.
ms tin, the macpherson mp, told today: "the government is faced with the responsibility to contain and control the virus in the fastest time possible to reduce the damage to our people to the minimum possible.
"after all, at the national level, if there are people who are spreading misinformation, discouraging people from receiving the vaccination or from complying with the safety rules, then you can imagine how much it will slow down our pandemic response or even derail it.
"fortunately, singapore is not faring too bad when it comes to managing misinformation, said assoc prof chua from the wee kim wee school of communication and information.
many were apprehensive when singapore's vaccination programme began in earnest earlier this year, but the myths were quickly dispelled through the mainstream media and with the help of infectious diseases experts, said assoc prof chua.
ips' dr soon and mr goh said of these efforts: "effective communication of science is needed to build resilience against vaccine misinformation and foster public trust in science.
"public messaging should be clear and simple, for example by stating that vaccines are safe and effective, and highlighting scientific consensus on the matter helps inoculate people from being swayed by misinformation that claim otherwise.
"dr jeremy lim, from the saw swee hock school of public health, said that disagreements between doctors and professionals can still be cordial, agreeing to disagree.
that said, transparency must also come from scientists, doctors, public health professionals too, considering that the nature of novel diseases means there will be limited data and experience to go by.
"in public communications, it's important to share views and recognise alternative ways of interpreting data, as well as be clear why one disagrees with certain points made," said dr lim.
while some may argue that alternative views have been shut out of the official narrative, singapore's public communications strategies by and large have allowed national vaccination take-up rate to maintain a healthy trajectory, said those interviewed.
after all, the proof is in the pudding, they said.
but at the individual level, when confronted with someone with wildly differing views that are based on falsehoods, ms tin urged people to not dismiss them and instead listen closely to their concerns.
"sometimes that can be very difficult to do and it can be an emotional experience," said ms tin.
"but we just have to try. "
― todayloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington (reuters) a g-7 plan to donate 1 billion covid-19 vaccine doses to poorer countries will have limited impact because it includes some previous pledges, but it still offers a small lifeline to a global vaccine buying system, some experts said.
leaders from the group of seven major economies announced the move on friday (june 11).
a us initiative announced on thursday to donate 500 million doses of the pfizer and biontech se vaccine is part of the g-7 pledge.
many of the promised doses will flow through covax, a global vaccine buying system backed by the world health organisation and gavi, the vaccine alliance.
the pledge does not represent entirely new resources, and the donation is far short of the 5 billion to 6 billion shots needed by poorer nations.
moreover, the plan does not address distribution gaps that could make it difficult to deliver doses.
but experts said it is still a much-needed boost to covax, which has so far only distributed 83 million shots worldwide.
covax has struggled to secure deliveries as wealthy nations reserve enough shots to vaccinate their populations several times over.
"it's going to rescue covax from its pretty dire predicament right now, so it's a very significant step," said stephen morrison, the director of the global health policy center at the centre for strategic and international studies, a think tank.
britain's 100 million dose pledge is "entirely new", according to a spokesperson.
but the european union's 100 million dose commitment was promised during a summit in may, and the us commitment partially replaces earlier promises to fund covax directly.
the united states has already donated us$2 billion (s$2.
7 billion) to covax, according to a white house official.
in february, the biden administration pledged us$2 billion more.
but that second us$2 billion will now fund the purchase of the pfizer doses, along with us$1.
5 billion in additional funds, according to the official.
even if the shots are acquired and shipped, they risk overwhelming developing countries' limited distribution infrastructure, especially if many are delivered together late this year.
the world bank extended a us$12 billion line of credit for developing countries to build out vaccine distribution infrastructure, but governments have drawn down only about us$3 billion.
"the low-income countries are wary of increasing their debt profile, that is the reality," said edwin ikhuoria, executive director for the one campaign, a nonprofit focused on poverty and public health.
others argue that wealthy countries should find a way to ship doses more quickly, especially as some near expiry in countries with high vaccination rates, including those made by johnson & johnson inc. "when you just see the graph of the increase of vaccination coverage in wealthy countries and the accelerated pace at which that has been happening, and then when you look at the pace in developing countries, it's just so stark," said kate elder, senior vaccines policy adviser at médecins sans frontières.
"doses are needed now.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
chinese powerhouse psg.
lgd is the first team to reach the grand finals of the weplay animajor after they defeated southeast asian squad t1 in an intense 2-1 showdown in the upper bracket finals.
psg.
lgd emerged as the heavy favourites to win the animajor after a blazing start in the group stage, where they topped the standings with a stellar 11-3 record.
that earned the chinese squad an upper bracket berth in the playoffs, where they continued their dominance by knocking eu/ western european teams alliance and team nigma down to the lower bracket en route to the upper bracket finals.
meanwhile, t1 earned a direct seed to the upper bracket of the animajor playoffs as the top team of the southeast asian regional league.
despite being pegged as one of the weaker playoff-seeded teams, t1 defied expectations by taking down team aster and quincy crew — the top teams of the chinese and north american regional leagues, respectively — to face off against psg.
lgd for a spot in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd crushed t1 in game one but threw away their chance to sweep the series late into game two.
however, the chinese team were undeterred heading into game three and proceeded to dominate their opponents to claim the 2-1 series victory and claim their spot in the grand finals.
read on for a breakdown of the weplay animajor upper bracket finals:game onethe upper bracket finals opened with t1 going with their tried-and-true four-protect-one strategy anchored by star carry player nuengnara "23savage" teeramahanon's medusa.
meanwhile, psg.
lgd countered with a fast-paced, hard-hitting lineup led by a tri-core of spectre for wang "ame" chunyu, a mid leshrac for cheng "nothingtosay" jin xiang, and an offlane dragon knight for zhang "faith_bian" ruida.
the support duo of zhao "xinq" zixing on hoodwink and zhang "y`" yiping on winter wyvern brought up the rear and provided crowd control.
psg.
lgd took control of game one early, as nothingtosay's leshrac and faith_bian's dragon knight demolished enemy towers and took map control for their team to give ame's spectre the space he needed to free farm.
the chinese team's early lead allowed them to hit their timings early and strike before 23savage's medusa was able to come online.
with 23savage far from being able to solo carry and the rest of t1 essentially neutered, psg.
lgd dominated the team fights and took game one after 31 minutes.
ame and xinq notably combined for 22 of their team's 32 total kills without giving up a single death between the two of them.
game twopsg.
lgd went with ame on spectre and nothingtosay on leshrac again for game two.
however, their lineup also featured a lot of burst damage with faith_bian on axe, xinq on skywrath mage, and y` on enchantress.
t1 looked to bounce back with a more balanced lineup headed by a tri-core of monkey king for 23savage, puck for karl "karl" jayme, and an offlane doom for carlo "kuku" palad.
t1 put up a much better fight in game two as they led 12-9 in kills held a narrow gold lead by the 20-minute mark.
however, psg.
lgd were able to win crucial midgame fights to take the lead heading into the late game, where their lineup was much stronger than t1.
knowing they were in the driver's seat, psg.
lgd amped up the aggression and tried to force one last decisive engagement.
however, t1 punished their opponents' over-aggression and were the ones to win that crucial clash and the second game of the series after 47 minutes of action.
karl's puck was the difference maker for t1 as they forced the series to a deciding game three, as he provided crucial crowd control and burst damage en route to a game-high 12 kills against three deaths.
game threet1 put karl on puck again in game three then took the spectre-axe duo for 23savage and kuku.
xepher on winter wyvern and whitemon on warlock rounded out the line-up by providing huge team fight ultimates.
meanwhile, psg.
lgd countered their opponents' slower line-up with a fast-paced tri-core of wraith king for ame, leshrac again for nothingtosay, and doom for faith_bian.
xinq on nyx assassin and y` on phoenix comprised the chinese team's support duo.
psg.
lgd took control of game three from the get-go and never looked back.
the chinese team built up a 10-4 kill lead and a 8,000 gold advantage by the 20-minute mark which only ballooned up to a 16-6 kill lead and 20,000 gold advantage ten minutes later.
despite t1's best efforts to defend, their line-up simply failed to get off the ground and could do little to stop psg.
lgd from claiming the 2-1 series victory after 35 minutes.
with their victory, psg.
lgd guarantee themselves at least a top 2 finish in the weplay animajor along with us$100,000 and 450 dota pro circuit (dpc) points.
of course, they will have their sights set on being crowned as major champions on sunday (13 june) and claim the lion's share of us$200,000 and 500 dpc points.
meanwhile, t1 drop down to the lower bracket finals, where they will take on north american giants evil geniuses (eg), who were the finalists of the one esports singapore major.
those two squads will be facing off before the grand finals for the right to challenge psg.
lgd for the championship of the weplay animajor.
psg.
lgd:wang "ame" chunyucheng "nothingtosay" jin xiangzhang "faith_bian" ruidazhao "xinq" zixingzhang "y`" yipingt1:nuengnara "23savage" teeramahanonkarl "karl" jaymecarlo "kuku" paladkenny "xepher" deomatthew "whitemon" filemonread also:weplay animajor playoff preview: the race for ti10 direct invitesweplay animajor: everything you need to knowfor more esports news updates, visit https://yhoo.
it/yahooesportssea and check out yahoo esports southeast asia's facebook page and twitter.
check out esports videos from yahoo tv:it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
kuala lumpur: marine biologists are investigating a mystery skin disease afflicting whitetip reef sharks in malaysia, with some early reports suggesting rising sea temperatures could be to blame.
named for the distinctive white tips on their fins, whitetip reef sharks are typically found resting in schools around reefs in the day and are a popular attraction for divers.
they become active at night to hunt for small fish and other animals.
pictures of one of the sharks with what appeared to be spots and lesions on its head went viral on social media in april after being taken by an underwater photographer off sabah state on borneo island.
soon after, divers at sipadan island, a famed diving destination nearby, and a team of experts from the state's university and government and conservation groups began seeing the skin disease in every group of sharks they encountered.
attempting to diagnose what could be causing the illness, the team found the sea surface temperature at sipadan had risen to 29.
5 degrees celsius in may, a degree higher than in 1985.
"we can almost certainly pin the warming ocean as having a role in what we are seeing with the sickly sharks in sipadan," said davies austin spiji, a senior marine biologist with non-profit conservation group reef guardian, ruling out human factors as sipadan is a marine protected area where fishing is strictly prohibited, and there are no settlements or industries nearby.
the reported sightings coincide with reports of coral bleaching in the area, according to mohamed shariff mohamed din, a professor in aquatic veterinary studies with universiti putra malaysia.
"we cannot ignore that changes are happening there due to higher temperatures," mohamed shariff said.
a full scientific study is yet to be done, however.
in may, the research team tried but failed to capture some of the sharks to secure samples for testing, said mabel manjaji-matsumoto, a senior lecturer with the borneo marine research institute of universiti malaysia sabah.
"if we can get shark specimens, we will surely at least be able to find out the pathogenic cause of the lesions," manjaji-matsumoto said, adding that the team plans to make another attempt in july.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
over four years ago, rolls-royce unleashed its first electric vehicle.
it wasn't a passenger vehicle, though, but a one-off kid car for a noble cause called the rolls-royce srh.
built specifically for st.  richard's hospital in chichester, the srh was used by children to drive themselves before pediatric surgeries.
now, after years of being in service, the srh is now back at the home of rolls-royce in goodwood for routine maintenance work after 2,000 journeys amounting to 100,000 meters (62 miles).
the srh needed 400 hours to be completed, with the main purpose to provide excitement to young patients who are up for surgery.
rather than walking or being wheeled to the surgery unit, the kids can drive themselves, removing anxiety and replacing it with a memorable experience.
the journey was in style, of course, with the srh bearing a laser-etched rr badge and its own spirit of ecstasy.
however, that task wasn't without any peril.
the srh suffered some damages to its paint and bodywork, which prompted the automaker to instill a recall to bring it back to its original design and condition.
there's the other one-off that's equally special:"building the rolls-royce srh for st richard's hospital was tremendously satisfying for all concerned.
that it has been used so extensively and made such a positive contribution to so many children's experiences, makes it all the more rewarding.
it was wonderful to see it back at the home of rolls-royce and to have the opportunity to return it to its original, magnificent state," said andrew ball, head of corporate relations, rolls-royce motor cars.
now back in its original state, the rolls-royce srh has returned in service to continue its journey as a joy-bringer to the children of st richard's hospital.
source:
                                
                                                                    rolls-royce car buying serviceget upfront price offers on local inventory.
search for:trendingabout this article
follow onadvertisement
reuters
staff

contact
tokyo -- 
	tokyo olympic organizers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where physical distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organizers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organizers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organizers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)the olympic rings are silhouetted as fireworks light up the sky during the closing ceremonies at the 2014 sochi winter olympics in sochi, russia on sunday, february 23, 2014.
(the canadian press / nathan denette)advertisement
        sign up for our weekly email newsletter delving into climate science and life on a changing planet.
use of this website assumes acceptance of terms & conditions and privacy policy© 2021all rights reserved.
back to top
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:28 pm myt

the european medicines agency (ema) considers the astrazeneca shot safe for all age groups.
.
— afp pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
milan, june 13 — countries should also avoid giving the astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine to people over 60, the head of the eu drug regulator's covid-19 task force was quoted on sunday as saying, amid fears over rare blood clotting and as more vaccines become available.
the european medicines agency (ema) considers the astrazeneca shot safe for all age groups.
however several european union member states have stopped administering it to people below a certain age, usually ranging from 50 to 65, restricting its use to the older population, due to the rare cases of blood clotting, mainly among young people.
"in a pandemic context, our position was and is that the risk-benefit ratio remains favourable for all age groups," covid-19 task force chief marco cavaleri told the italian newspaper la stampa.
however, as the number of covid-19 cases is falling and taking into account that the younger population is less exposed to covid-19 related risks, cavaleri said it would be better to use on them covid-19 vaccines based on messenger rna ( mrna) technology, such as moderna and the pfizer-biontech vaccines.
asked whether health authorities should avoid giving the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, cavaleri said: "yes, and many countries, such as france and germany, are considering it in the light of greater availability of mrna vaccines.
"the italian government said on friday it would restrict the use of the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, after a teenager who had received the shot died from a rare form of blood clotting.
like many european countries, italy briefly halted astrazeneca inoculations in march over concerns about the rare blood clotting problems.
it resumed them the following month with the recommendation that the product be "preferably" used for people over the age of 60, after the ema said its benefits outweighed any risks.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
australia's victoria state expects to announce further easing of covid-19 restrictions this week, acting premier james merlino said on sunday, as the state reported one new locally acquired infection for a second straight day.
also read: australia's victoria detects delta covid-19 variant in latest outbreakthe latest infection was a close contact of a previously reported case and had already been quarantined, victoria's health department said.
australia's second-most-populous state has recorded 92 cases in its latest wave of covid-19 infections, which triggered a two-week snap lockdown late last month.
victoria emerged from the lockdown on friday as new cases declined, but some physical distancing rules remain.
"my expectation is by later in the week, we will be in a position to announce further easing of restrictions for regional victoria and .
.
.
for metropolitan melbourne," merlino said.
merlino added he was keen to get people back to attending sporting events and theatre, though he had no announcement to make yet in that regard.
under existing curbs, melbourne residents can only travel up to 25 kilometres (15.
5 miles) from home while outdoor gatherings are limited to 10 people.
masks are required indoors and outdoors at all public spaces.
also read: covid-19: australia's victoria enters 7-day lockdownmore than 3,000 primary close contacts of infected cases are already in quarantine with about 122 exposure sites listed on the victorian government website.
australia has fared much better than many other developed countries during the pandemic, with more than 22,300 local covid-19 cases and 910 deaths since march 2020, mostly in victorian aged-care homes.
snap lockdowns, internal border controls and tough social distancing rules have helped it contain prior outbreaks.
new south wales, australia's most populous state, and neighbouring queensland are on high alert after an infected woman and her husband travelled from victoria through several country towns in both states.
with no new cases on sunday, new south wales, which includes the largest city, sydney, has not reported any locally acquired infection in more than a month, while queensland last reported cases in late march.
get our daily newsletter
socialism and mamatha banerjee, tamil couple who went viral, tie the knot

man trying to board moving train slips, cop and train guard save his life.
watch

otter trapped inside car engine gets rescued in scotland

car drowns in sinkhole in mumbai, viral video shocks tweeple.
watch
get free access to newsletters, alerts and recommendations
an electronic board displays stock figures at the  philippine stock exchange in metro manila, the philippines.
(photographer: carlo gabuco/bloomberg)(bloomberg) -- treasury yields edged higher monday as investors prepared for a key federal reserve meeting later in the week.
stocks were mixed in thin trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
46% after hitting three-month lows on thursday and notching their biggest weekly slide since december last week.
stocks saw modest gains in japan and a drop in south korea.
trading volumes were light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were little changed after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields trending downward, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped over the weekend after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
oil futures advanced.
for market commentary, follow the mliv blog.
here are some key events to watch this week:these are some of the main moves in markets:©2021 bloomberg l. p.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                petaling jaya: transport minister datuk seri dr wee ka siong (pic) and his singaporean counterpart s.  iswaran held their first virtual video call to discuss various issues pertaining to their portfolios.
"during our half-hour discussion, we spoke about several issues covering all transportation sectors that will bring mutual benefit to citizens of malaysia and singapore, " he said in a facebook post yesterday.
some of the thousands of malaysians who used to commute daily to singapore for work have been left stranded when the border closed.
singapore also suspended its reciprocal green lane cross-border travel scheme with malaysia following a spike in covid-19 cases across the causeway at the start of the year.
dr wee said that the two leaders shared the efforts taken by both countries to fight the covid-19 pandemic, including the vaccination programme as well as efforts to revive and stimulate the economy.
"we will also continue such discussions using various available channels although borders have been closed now due to the covid-19 pandemic, " said dr wee.
"certainly, the diplomatic relations between malaysia and singapore will continue to be strengthened for our mutual growth and prosperity, " he said.
tags / keywords:
transport ministry
                                                                ,
                                                                                                malaysia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                singapore



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
singapore – the ministry of health (moh) on saturday (12 june) confirmed 18 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,263. the ministry said in a press release that there are nine new community cases, with four linked to previous cases.
among them, three have already been placed on quarantine, and one was detected through surveillance.
the remaining five cases are currently unlinked.
this updated number of new community cases – the ministry had said there were 12 such cases in the afternoon – is because the moh withdrew three cases after they were verified to be negative for covid-19 upon further tests.
additionally, there are nine imported cases, who have already been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
all nine are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the five unlinked cases currently are: an 18-year-old female singaporean who is a student at sim global education, and was last in school on 24 maya 27-year-old myanmar woman who is a foreign domestic worker.
a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port pte ltd (fully vaccinated) a 45-year-old female china national who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orcharda 68-year-old singaporean man who works as a landscape gardener at amozonia landscape pte ltd (fully vaccinated)the moh had earlier announced that ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday to 15 june for deep cleaning, following the detection of three covid-19 cases among those working at the mall.
the first case in this cluster is a 38-year-old indonesian man who is employed by marina offshore pte ltd as a sea crew on board tugboat marina ariel.
he was confirmed to have covid-19 infection on 11 june.
the two other cases in this cluster are workplace contacts of this case.
they tested positive while on quarantine and were announced on saturday: a 40-year-old indonesia man who is employed by marina offshore pte ltd as an engineer on board tugboat marina ariela 38-year-old indonesian man who is employed by marina offshore pte ltd as a sea crew on board tugboat marina arielthe other linked cases are: a 35-year-old female malaysia national who works as an administrative staff at ces lamination pte ltdan 82-year-old singaporean woman who regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market & hawker centre (fully vaccinated)among the nine imported cases, six are singaporeans and three are singapore permanent residents who returned from india, portugal, russia, thailand, the uk and us.
the ministry noted that the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 129 in the week before to 32 in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 20 in the week before to 14 in the past week.
singapore currently has 46 active covid-19 clusters.
authorities on thursday said that singapore will gradually move to phase 3 (heightened alert) in two steps, with one set of measures taking effect from 14 june and another from 21 june.
from 14 june, the size of social gatherings allowed in singapore will be increased to five people, up from the current limit of two persons.
dining in at food and beverage establishments, however, can only resume from 21 june provided that the covid-19 situation remains under control.
in addition, work-from-home will remain the default work arrangement in phase 3 (heightened alert).
with 39 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on saturday, 61,838 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 125 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 266 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 87 confirmed cases reported from 6 to 12 june, 46 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 25 have tested negative, and 16 serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
carbis bay, england: the group of seven richest democracies on saturday (jun 12) sought to counter china's growing influence by offering developing nations an infrastructure plan that would rival president xi jinping's multi-trillion-dollar belt and road initiative.
the g7, whose leaders are meeting in southwestern england and who discussed strategic competition with beijing, has been searching for a coherent response to the growing assertiveness of xi after china's surging economic and military rise over the past 40 years.
us president joe biden and other g7 leaders hope the plan, known as the build back better world (b3w) initiative, will provide a transparent infrastructure partnership to help narrow the us$40 trillion needed by developing nations by 2035, the white house said.
"this is not just about confronting or taking on china," a senior official in biden's administration said.
"but until now we haven't offered a positive alternative that reflects our values, our standards and our way of doing business.
"the g7 and its allies will use the initiative to mobilise private sector capital in areas such as climate, health and health security, digital technology, and gender equity and equality, the white house said.
it was not immediately clear how the plan would exactly work or how much capital it would ultimately allocate.
china's belt and road initiative (bri) is a multi-trillion-dollar infrastructure scheme that xi launched in 2013, involving development and investment initiatives that would stretch from asia to europe and beyond.
more than 100 countries have signed agreements with china to cooperate in bri projects like railways, ports, highways and other infrastructure.
critics say xi's plan to create a modern version of the ancient silk road trade route to link china with asia, europe and beyond is a vehicle for the expansion of communist china.
beijing says such doubts betray the "imperial hangover" of many western powers that humiliated china for centuries.
china's risethe re-emergence of china as a leading global power is considered to be one of the most significant geopolitical events of recent times, alongside the 1991 fall of the soviet union that ended the cold war.
china in 1979 had an economy that was smaller than italy's, but after opening to foreign investment and introducing market reforms, it has become the world's second-largest economy and is a global leader in a range of new technologies.
leaders of the g7 the united states, canada, britain, germany, italy, france and japan want to use their gathering in the seaside resort of carbis bay to show the world that the richest democracies can offer an alternative to china's growing clout.
the us official said that until now, the west had failed to offer a positive alternative to the "lack of transparency, poor environmental and labour standards, and coercive approach" of the chinese government that had left many countries worse off.
according to a refinitiv database, as of mid-last year, more than 2,600 projects at a cost of us$3.
7 trillion were linked to the initiative, although the chinese foreign ministry said last june that about 20 per cent of projects had been seriously affected by the covid-19 pandemic.
as part of the g7 plan, the united states will work with the us congress to supplement existing development financing and to "collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment," the white house said.
forced labourthe united states is pushing the other g7 leaders for "concrete action on forced labour" in china, and to include criticism of beijing in their final communique from a three-day summit in southwest england, the us official said.
biden planned to press the other leaders to make clear that they believe forced labour practices are an affront to human dignity and "an egregious example of china's unfair economic competition".
"we're pushing on being specific on areas like xinjiang where forced labour is taking place and where we have to express our values as a g7," the official said of the final communique to be issued at the end of the summit on sunday.
china denies all accusations of abuse in the xinjiang region.
the chinese foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the g7 infrastructure proposal or the us official's remarks about forced labour.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
how they can help in wealth creationtomorrow is different.
let's reshape it todaylet's get smarter about money#toughertogetherhunt for the brightest engineers in indiamental health awareness initiativethe dynamic duo of a holistic self-caremcdonald's has released a new celebrity meal 'bts meal' in collaboration with bts on may 27, 2021 in south korea.
the meal will be available in total of 49 countries.
trending nowpopular categorieshot on webin case you missed itet verticalsmore from our networkother useful linksservicesfind this comment offensive?choose your reason below and click on the report button.
this will alert our moderators to take actionreason for reporting:your reason has been reported to the admin.
log in/connect with:will be displayedwill not be displayedwill be displayedstories you might be interested in
by philip o'connor and jacob gronholt-pedersencopenhagen (reuters) -denmark midfielder christian eriksen was rushed to hospital after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch on saturday, with soccer officials later saying the player was stable and awake.
eriksen collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in.
as a hush fell over the 16,000-strong crowd, his teammates gathered around him and one appeared to stick his fingers in eriksen's mouth to clear his airway or check he hadn't swallowed his tongue.
as medics arrived on the scene and pumped eriksen's chest, his teammates formed a ring around him.
danish broadcaster dr cut the live tv feed, instead showing aerial footage of the stadium.
the 29-year-old was taken to the nearby rigshospitalet, where he regained conciousness.
"we have been in contact with him and the players have spoken to christian," said peter moller of the danish football association.
applause broke out in the parken stadium among both danish and finnish fans, when it was announced that eriksen had regained conciousness.
"he is doing well and they are playing the match for christian," moller said.
the game was initially suspended but resumed an hour and 45 minutes later, finland claiming a 1-0 victory when striker joel pohjanpalo headed in on the hour with his side's only attempt of the game.
a visibly drained denmark coach kasper hjulmand said after the match that the players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer, were too overwhelmed by emotions to finish the game, he said.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level, after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," hjulmand said.
later in the day, belgian striker romelu lukaku, a teammate of eriksen at soccer club inter milan in italy, ran to a tv camera and shouted "chris, chris, i love you" after scoring in his side's opening match against russian.
people gathered outside bars in central copenhagen, many in tears, while eriksen's condition remained unclear.
the crowd at the parken stadium in copenhagen sang the danish national anthem and chanted "christian eriksen" while they waited for news, until word finally came through that the player had regained consciousness.
(reporting by philip o'connor, jacob gronholt-pedersen and stine jacobsen; editing by frances kerry, pravin char and hugh lawson)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"prøv niro plug-in hybrid og kom med på den elektriske bølge.
kør på strøm til hverdag og hybrid, når du skal langtwhat if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore employers here have no legal power to force staff members to disclose their covid-19 vaccination status or demand that they get inoculated.
experts and employers noted that while vaccination is strongly encouraged in singapore, it remains voluntary, although there are several ways people can be encouraged to get a jab.
these will come more into focus as singapore begins rolling out covid-19 vaccinations to the wider population, with bookings open to singaporeans aged 12 to 39 from friday (june 11).
singapore human resources institute (shri) president low peck kem told the straits times that unless there is a business need, employers should not compel staff to disclose if they have had a jab or take punitive action against those who do not get inoculated or refuse to update their vaccination status.
"even if there is a strong business need, such as needing to know in order to determine if the employee can travel for business or to deploy to higher-risk front-line facing roles, do explain clearly why the company needs to know the status and generally, most employees will comply," she said.
institute for human resource professionals (ihrp) chief executive mayank parekh said that bosses should not use non-vaccination as a reason to terminate employment as there could be medical reasons for why a staff member did not get a shot.
mr tan wei ming, senior associate at law firm cms holborn asia, said that if employers want to keep records on vaccinated employees that contain personal data such as names, they must do so in accordance with the personal data protection act and other applicable data protection laws.
"for these reasons, companies in singapore are unlikely to make their employees declare their vaccination status at this juncture," he added.
wongpartnership joint head of employment practice jenny tsin said staff members should not face discrimination arising from their vaccination status, given that its voluntary.
however, there could be circumstances that warrant a different approach, such as for jobs involving higher risk of exposure to covid-19, she added.
in this instance, it could be more justified to limit return to the workplace to only vaccinated employees.
investment bank goldman sachs recently ordered its employees in the united states to report their covid-19 vaccination status as part of their plans to return to the office, afp reported on thursday.
st understands that goldman sachs is not requiring staff here to report their vaccination status, and that most are still working from home.
while professional services firm ey strongly encourages its eligible staff to get vaccinated, it does not require them to declare their status given that immunisation is not mandatory, said the singapore and brunei managing partner max loh.
uob human resources head dean tong said the bank has been encouraging staff in critical roles to get vaccinated since the government announced its roll-out to essential workers in the financial sector in march.
st understands that uob does not track the vaccination status of employees.
meanwhile, sembcorp industries has introduced an app that provides voluntary updates on a person's vaccination status.
the app, which was developed in-house, is also used to obtain online approval for essential facility visits.
an amazon spokesman said that the company's employees and associates are generally not required to declare their vaccination status, except for staff members who are travelling to singapore from overseas.
the firm also provides a cash benefit to front-line employees and associates who are paid by the hour when they get their vaccination off-site.
shri's ms low and mr parekh from ihrp said employers can encourage immunisation by communicating the benefits to their staff as well as incentivising vaccination through means such as time off after getting the jabs and giving workers a care package.
mr samir bedi, asean workforce advisory leader at ey, noted that it would not be surprising to see employers including vaccination as a pre-requisite in job descriptions in future, particularly for front-line positions that require face-to-face interactions.
"this not only protects employees and their families, but also ensures the public's safety.
employees who travel for work may also need to comply with pre-travel vaccination travel regulations," he said.
but companies must remain inclusive and consider the needs of individuals who may not be able to get vaccinated due to health reasons, mr bedi said.
he added: "this requires employers to continue with precautionary safe workplace measures while ensuring equal career opportunities for all.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: two eateries have been ordered to close, and two supermarkets fined for breaching covid-19 safe management measures, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment on friday (jun 11).
the closure orders will take effect when dining-in is allowed to resume, said the ministry.
the first eatery ordered to close is the starz bistro at 66 east coast road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 22, and consume alcohol after 10.
30pm.
the urban redevelopment authority (ura) has ordered the establishment to close for 10 days.
the second eatery is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant at 367/369 beach road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 28 at 9.
30pm.
as this is its third offence, ura has ordered the establishment to close for 30 days.
singaporeimplemented tighter measures from may 16 to jun 13, including barring dining-in at food and beverage outlets.
two supermarkets were fined s$1,000 each for not having staff members to oversee the safe entry checkpoints: giant supermarket, located at bedok shopping complex and the cold storage outlet at siglap v. mse also said that since phase 2 (heightened alert) was implemented,77 individuals have been finedfor breaching safe management measures at parks.
agencies will also step up enforcement at hotspots where safe management measures are more frequently breached, including parks and hdb common areas, the ministry said.
on thursday, the ministry of health (moh) said that dining in can resume on jun 21 if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, as part ofsingapore's plan to move to phase 3 (heightened alert).
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
carbis bay, england: leaders of the world's largest economies unveiled an infrastructure plan saturday (jun 12) for the developing world to compete with china's global initiatives, but they were searching for a consensus on how to forcefully call out beijing over human rights abuses.
citing china for its forced labour practices is part of president joe biden's campaign to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing.
but while they agreed to work toward competing against china, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed biden's position, while germany, italy and the european union showed more hesitancy during saturday's first session of the group of seven summit, according to two senior biden administration officials.
the officials who briefed reporters were not authorised to publicly discuss the private meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.
the communique that summarises the meeting's commitments was being written and the contents would not be clear until it was released when the summit ended sunday.
white house officials said late saturday that they believed that china, in some form, could be called out for "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses".
in his first summit as president, biden made a point of carving out one-on-one-time with various leaders, bouncing from french president emmanuel macron to german chancellor angela merkel to italian prime minister mario draghi as well as japan's yoshihide suga and australia's scott morrison, a day after meeting with british prime minister boris johnson as if to personally try to ward off memories of the chaos that his predecessor would often bring to these gatherings.
macron told biden that collaboration was needed on a range of issues and told the american president that "it's great to have a us president part of the club and very willing to cooperate".
relations between the allies had become strained during the four years of donald trump's presidency and his "america first" foreign policy.
merkel, for her part, downplayed differences on china and the nord stream 2 pipeline which would transport natural gas from russia to germany, bypassing ukraine.
"the atmosphere is very cooperative, it is characterised by mutual interest," merkel said.
"there are very good, constructive and very vivid discussions in the sense that one wants to work together.
"white house officials have said biden wants the leaders of the g7 nations — the us, britain, canada, france, germany, japan and italy — to speak in a single voice against forced labour practices targeting china's uyghur muslims and other ethnic minorities.
biden hopes the denunciation will be part of a joint statement to be released sunday when the summit ends, but some european allies are reluctant to split so forcefully with beijing.
china had become one of the more compelling sublots of the wealthy nations' summit, their first since 2019.  last year's gathering was cancelled because of covid-19, and recovery from the pandemic is dominating this year's discussions, with leaders expected to commit to sharing at least 1 billion vaccine shots with struggling countries.
the allies also took the first steps in presenting an infrastructure proposal called "build back better for the world", a name echoing biden's campaign slogan.
the plan calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labour practices.
it's designed to compete with china's trillion-dollar "belt and road initiative" which has launched a network of projects and maritime lanes that snake around large portions of the world, primarily asia and africa.
critics say china's projects often create massive debt and expose nations to undue influence by beijing.
britain also wants the world's democracies to become less reliant on the asian economic giant.
the uk government said saturday's discussions would tackle "how we can shape the global system to deliver for our people in support of our values", including by diversifying supply chains that currently heavily depend on china.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with china as the defining competition for the 21st century.
but there are some signs that europe is willing to impose greater scrutiny.
before biden took office in january, the european commission announced it had come to terms with beijing on a deal meant to provide europe and china with greater access to each other's markets.
the biden administration had hoped to have consultations on the pact.
but the deal has been put on hold, and the european union in march announcedsanctions targeting four chinese officialsinvolved with human rights abuses in xinjiang.
beijing responded with penalties on several members of the european parliament and other europeans critical of the chinese communist party.
biden administration officials see an opportunity to take concrete action to speak out against china's reliance on forced labour as an "affront to human dignity".
while calling out china in the g7 communique would not create any immediate penalties for beijing, one senior administration official said the action would send a message that the leaders were serious about defending human rights and working together to eradicate the use of forced labour.
an estimated 1 million people or more — most of them uyghurs — have been confined in reeducation camps in china's western xinjiang region in recent years, according to researchers.
chinese authorities have been accused of imposing forced labor, systematic forced birth control, torture and separating children from incarcerated parents.
beijing rejects allegations that it is committing crimes.
johnson, the summit host, also welcomed the leaders from "guest nations" south korea, australia and south africa, as well as the head of the united nations, to the summit to "intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations".
the leaders planned to attend a barbecue saturday night, complete with toasted marshmallows, hot buttered rum and a performance by a sea shanty troupe.
india was also invited but its delegation is not attending in person because of the severe coronavirus outbreak in the country.
biden ends the trip wednesday by meeting in geneva with russia's vladimir putin.
the white house announced saturday that they will not hold a joint news conference afterward, which removes the opportunity for comparisons to the availability that followed trump and putin's 2018 helsinki summit, in which trump sided with moscow over his own intelligence agencies.
only biden will address the news media after the meeting.
putin, in an interview with nbc news, said the us-russia relationship had "deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years".
he added that while trump was a "talented" and "colourful" person, biden was a "career man" in politics, which has "some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements" by the us president.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei • thailand is prioritising astrazeneca covid-19 vaccines produced in the country for itself due to the severity of the pandemic there, which has delayed deliveries to taiwan, president tsai ing-wen said.
taiwan is dealing with a spike in domestic infections and only 3 per cent of its 23.
5 million people have received at least one shot of vaccination so far, with millions of doses on order that have yet to arrive.
"the problem is that the goods that were supposed to have arrived in june have not," ms tsai told a taiwanese radio station yesterday.
taiwan has ordered 10 million doses from astrazeneca, which is mainly producing the shots in thailand, she said.
"now thailand's epidemic situation is serious and they are giving priority for vaccines to be used in thailand," ms tsai added.
thailand has reported 189,828 infections, with more than 80 per cent of the new cases and fatalities coming since april.
neither astrazeneca nor thai government officials immediately responded to requests for comment.
taiwan's health minister chen shih-chung told lawmakers on tuesday that orders from astrazeneca would be delayed by a month due to production problems at the firm's thai plant.
taiwan received 1.
24 million astrazeneca doses donated by japan last week, and the united states has pledged 750,000 shots, but no details have been provided on that.
ms tsai said the government has been having "emergency" talks with the us and japan to see what other vaccines they may be able to give.
the president has come under pressure to do more to speed up vaccine deliveries, and yesterday expressed apologies for the infections and deaths.
mr chen told parliament that government-run research centre academia sinica has made good progress on mrna technology and contacted moderna about working with it on vaccines.
moderna did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
taiwan has received just 150,000 moderna doses of more than five million on order.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the law came into effect on thursday, adding to china's toolbox as it builds its defences against us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
the move also came just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest -- allowing beijing to now hit back at those who formulate or comply with foreign sanctions.
"european companies in china are shocked by the lack of transparency and speed of this process," european chamber president joerg wuttke told afp, referring to the passing of the new law.
with the fresh rules prohibiting organisations from implementing what beijing deems discriminatory and restrictive measures, "foreign firms remain very much stuck between a rock and a hard place," he said.
american chamber of commerce chairman greg gilligan cautioned that the new law "presents potentially irreconcilable compliance problems for foreign companies".
rushing through a new law without an opportunity for public comment severely jeopardises foreign investor confidence in china's legal system as well, he added.
but chinese foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin told a regular press briefing on friday he did not see a definite link between the new law and foreign investment.
"if anything, the enactment of the anti-foreign sanctions law provides a predictable legal environment.
.
.
for foreign companies operating in china," he said.
wuttke, however, warned that the action was not conducive to attracting investment, or in reassuring companies that "already feel they may be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess".
"there is a real concern that this will further destabilise eu-china relations," he said.
in the european chamber's latest business confidence survey released this week, 41 per cent of respondents said china's business environment had become more politicised last year.
most reported they expect the situation to remain the same or deteriorate over the coming year.
bys-ehl/jfxit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bila taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore last year, several countries in south-east asia were among the poster boys for their deft handling of the covid-19 pandemic.
now, they are battling a resurgence in infections.
case numbers are still low compared with other hot spots like india and brazil but governments in the region, nonetheless, have initiated lockdowns and ramped up testing.
they have also accelerated vaccination drives by rolling out public awareness campaigns, ironing out flaws in previous policies, scaling up inoculation efforts and dangling incentives all of which are part of the effort to protect their people and open up economies battered by the pandemic.
"south-east asia has done a wonderful job during the first wave of the pandemic but people later lowered their guard and this gave the virus free rein on the ground.
the governments have tried to ramp up their vaccination campaigns but with the exception of singapore they still have a long way to go," dr abhishek rimal, kuala lumpur-based regional emergency health coordinator at the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies (ifrc), told the straits times.
singapore is the region's leader in vaccinations, with more than 30 per cent of the population fully vaccinated.
it has allowed children from the age of 12 to be vaccinated and month-long restrictions put in place to combat a spike in cases look set to be eased from monday (june 14).
but many of singapore's neighbours are hampered by slow progress in their vaccination campaigns, with most having inoculated less than 10 per cent of their population.
several countries are now working to speed up their efforts.
indonesia, which has given out more than 30 million shots mostly to the elderly, health workers and those with disabilities is allowing old folk to turn up at any designated facility for a jab without prior registration, while offering shots to the young if they help bring in those aged 60 years and above to be inoculated.
indonesia has asked china for technical assistance to help it become a regional production hub for the covid-19 vaccine.
a man receiving a dose of vaccine during a mass inoculation exercise in banda aceh, indonesia, on june 9, 2021.  photo: epa-efe
malaysia, which is in the throes of another lockdown after registering record-high cases and deaths in recent weeks, has opened up mega vaccination centres to inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
vaccine trucks have been deployed to areas where people might find it difficult to get to an immunisation centre.
close to four per cent of malaysia's 32 million population a total of 1.
22 million are now fully vaccinated.
the government has said that 16 million vaccine doses will arrive in the next two months.
thailand has set a target to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
it has announced plans to open up the tourist resort of phuket next month for fully vaccinated tourists.
the thai government has also allowed private and local administrative organisations to procure covid-19 vaccines, but only through approved agencies such as the national vaccine institute and the thai red cross society.
health workers attending to a woman about to receive a dose of covid-19  vaccine at an inoculation centre set up at the central eastville shopping mall in bangkok, on june 7, 2021.  photo: bloomberg
cambodia has mobilised the army to inoculate its citizens and the one millionth and two millionth vaccinated person received 10 million riel (s$3,244) each.
laos has banned the purchase of covid-19 vaccines by private entities in order to stave off complaints about inequality in the country, while neighbouring vietnam once a model for its successful handling of the pandemic has appealed to the public to donate to a covid-19 vaccine fund as it struggles to contain a new wave of the disease.
an electrical box painted with a covid-19 theme in hanoi on june 7, 2021.  about 16 electrical boxes in ha ba trung district have been painted this way to promote hand washing and the wearing of face masks.
photo: epa-efe
the philippines has extended vaccinations to children aged between 12 and 15, while private firms are allowed to procure vaccines for their workers without having to donate part of their shipments to the government.
in order to help shore up confidence in the vaccine programme and tackle the issue of vaccine hesitancy, local celebrities were roped in to get their jabs publicly, while some cities and towns went a step further by offering everything from cattle to land to property in a bid to entice people to get their jabs.
registration booths set up inside a cinema complex for citizens preparing to be vaccinated in san juan city, metro manila, on june 1, 2021.  photo: reuters
despite their best efforts to bump up vaccinations, countries in the region still face various challenges, chief among them getting enough vaccines.
it is estimated that the region will need some 1.
4 billion doses to cover the entire population of more than 650 million, leading some analysts to caution that this would be a formidable challenge since the global demand for vaccines outstrips supply.
some countries are only receiving their first stocks now.
impoverished timor leste received its first batch of vaccine doses from covax, comprising 24,000 astrazeneca doses, only on april 5 this year.
it received 100,000 doses of sinovac vaccines from china on june 7. covax is the world health organisation-led initiative to secure vaccine supplies for developing countries.
"slow vaccine roll-out will have critical consequences for south-east asia," ms hanh nguyen and mr james borton wrote in the international intelligence publication, geopolitical monitor, on may 25.
"for a region that relies heavily on export and tourism, the low vaccine coverage plus closed border policy mean countries will not open their economies soon, thus missing out on economic opportunities as the west gradually reopens.
"another issue has been competition between the west and china as beijing expands its vaccine diplomacy in the region.
apart from sales, china has donated vaccines to cambodia, laos, myanmar and the philippines.
"as of right now, china stands out in its vaccine diplomacy efforts a move that the global superpower will likely use to solidify its position within the south-east asia," mr shazwan mustafa kamal, a senior associate with political risk and public consultancy vriens & partners, told st. the united states has recently announced plans to donate seven million doses to south asia and south-east asia, while the g-7 is expected to donate one billion vaccine doses to the world's poorest countries.
but mr shazwan said western powers appeared to be playing catch-up to china.
"south-east asian nations will be in an unenviable position in balancing china's overtures as well as their relationships with the us," he added.
dr kevin s. y.  tan, a visiting senior fellow at iseas-yusof ishak institute who has written about vaccination efforts in the region, said it is too early to ascertain whether china's vaccine diplomacy will lead to any significant geopolitical shifts.
"if the pandemic drags on and if other vaccine sources are somehow limited, there will naturally be a greater dependency on chinese vaccines.
such vaccine dependency, in the long run, may bolster china's standing among south-east asian nations," he told st. logistics is another major issue in a region marked by vastly different terrain, from modern cities to rural mountainous areas and far-flung islands.
this comes on top of poor infrastructure and limited resources to distribute and store vaccines, a significant roadblock for rapid deployment, especially for last-mile delivery.
experts fear that if this is not overcome, the overall recovery for any nation will be difficult and time-consuming, especially if coronavirus variants lead to new waves of infection.
as such, it is important that governments ensure the necessary infrastructure is in place, said iseas' dr tan, especially for vaccines with ultra-cold storage requirements.
"but if such infrastructure is unrealistic at the moment, then a decision to use more 'logistically friendly' vaccines may be a pragmatic and feasible approach," said dr tan, who is also an adjunct faculty member at the school of global studies in thailand's thammasat university.
another issue that could hamper the region's success in tamping down the virus is the ongoing civil unrest in myanmar.
political instability in the country has exacerbated an already overstretched healthcare system and observers fear it is in danger of turning into the next covid-19 epicentre.
locals told st the military government has set up vaccination centres but not many people are turning up for the jabs due to high distrust of the military junta's capability to administer, store and transport the vaccines.
many have also refused to get vaccinated as a mark of protest against the junta.
"i am not getting vaccinated as i do not trust the quality and efficacy of the vaccines after the coup.
my friends and family pretty much hold the same view as well," investment analyst ye salween, 31, told st. the jury is still out on whether the region can be fully vaccinated by the end of next year, a target set for the world by british prime minister boris johnson.
ifrc's dr abhishek described it as an "ambitious" target while iseas' dr tan said to do so would require a "colossal effort" which can be achieved, but only with support from foreign countries.
"this is because not a single country in the region has come up with its own home-made vaccine against covid-19 so far.
as a region, we are still dependent on supplies and support from sources beyond south-east asia and this is a glaring vulnerability that may need to be addressed," said dr tan.
professor paul tambyah, president of the asia-pacific society of clinical microbiology and infection, said locally manufactured vaccines were "the obvious answer", noting that middle-income countries such as indonesia, thailand and malaysia had well established vaccine-manufacturing capacity.
"the key has to be the trips waiver," he told st, referring to the world trade organisation's (wto) agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights that governs the transfer of property like movie rights or vaccine-manufacturing specifics.
"with the trips waiver on patents, south-east asian countries could rapidly scale up vaccine production.
"he added that, without the constraints of the patents, mass vaccination could be rolled out very quickly the way measles and polio vaccines, which were locally made, led to the virtual elimination of these diseases.
as of now though, reports say malaysia and the philippines will experience delays in the delivery of the astrazeneca vaccine manufactured in thailand.
that is going to exacerbate the situation in the philippines, in particular, because some vaccination sites in the capital, manila, have been closed due to the shortage of vaccines.
mr jose ma luis montesclaros, an associate research fellow at the s.  rajaratnam school of international studies, has suggested that asean should support the private sector to develop vaccine production capacity.
"i feel that expanding the supplies of vaccines is something that benefits not only the vaccine- producing/recipient countries, but the world over, given the interconnected nature of global trade and investments," he told st. "the sooner countries are able to solve the health problem, the sooner they can begin working on economic recovery," he added.
• allowing the elderly to go to any designated vaccination facility without prior registration.
• younger indonesians are eligible for shots if they help bring in those aged 60 years and older to get vaccinated.
• aiming to become a regional production hub for covid-19 vaccine.
• set up mega vaccination centres that can inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
• deploying vaccine trucks to rural communities.
• government has pledged 16 million doses of vaccines in the next two months.
• targeting to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
• shopping malls and supermarkets are among the 25 vaccination sites in bangkok.
• aiming to open up phuket for vaccinated tourists next month.
• approved vaccinations for children between the ages of 12 and 15.
• several towns and cities are offering cows, bags of rice, land and properties to entice people to get jabs.
• deploying vaccine buses to reach poorer, less accessible districts.
• residents sent text messages urging them to contribute to a covid-19 vaccine fund.
• looking to buy covid-19 vaccine production technology and build a plant to supply vaccines for the covax programme.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new york (bloomberg) a malaysian financier and a former member of hiphop trio the fugees were accused in a new indictment of illegally lobbying the trump administration to drop an investigation tied to the 1mdb global bribery scandal and remove a chinese dissident from the us.
a federal grand jury on thursday returned a superseding indictment against low taek jho, also known as jho low, and prakazrel "pras" michel, according to a justice department statement on friday (june 11).
low and michel's aim was to influence then-president donald trump's justice department to abandon the probe of low and others and extradite a wealthy chinese exile who has criticised the government in beijing.
that exile has not been identified by the justice department, but a person familiar with the matter has said it is guo wengui.
both low and michel were charged with money-laundering conspiracy, while michel was also accused of witness tampering and conspiring to make false statements to banks.
"pras intends to defend this case very vigorously and believes that when all of the facts are developed, a jury will conclude that this was a selective prosecution that has unfairly targeted mr michel and will exonerate him," michel's lawyer, benjamin brafman, said in a statement.
with lauryn hill and wyclef jean, michel was a member of the fugees, which had some of the biggest hits of the 1990s.
low and michel were previously charged in 2019 with seeking to funnel millions of dollars of low's money into the us presidential election as legitimate campaign contributions while hiding the actual source of the funds.
prosecutors said the two men worked closely with trump fund-raiser elliott broidy, who pleaded guilty last year to illegally lobbying the trump administration to help low squelch the 1mdb investigation and to seek the extradition of wengui from the us trump pardoned broidy in january.
the back-channel efforts failed.
low was indicted in 2018 on charges of conspiring to launder billions of dollars embezzled from 1mdb.
low has denied wrongdoing and is considered a fugitive.
low had been a little-known financier who built an us$8 billion (s$10 billion)  fund intended to develop the malaysian economy.
authorities in the us and malaysia allege he spent the pilfered money on parties, sports cars, luxury properties and priceless art.
goldman sachs group admitted its role in the scheme and its malaysia unit pleaded guilty last year, agreeing to pay more than us$2.
3 billion in financial penalties, the largest in american history for violating us anti-bribery laws.
the unit was sentenced on wednesday, triggering a us$1.
26 billion payment for goldman sachs for the remaining fines.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published: 10:31am, 13 jun, 2021updated: 10:31am, 13 jun, 2021
published: 11:43am, 13 jun, 2021updated: 11:43am, 13 jun, 2021
the hong kong government on friday enacted new guidelines that allow authorities to censor films on the basis of safeguarding national security, escalating concerns over freedoms in the former british colony.
the government said the changes that give the film censor authority to ban films perceived as promoting or glorifying acts or activities that could endanger national security take effect from friday.
the film censorship authority should stay "vigilant to the portrayal, depiction or treatment of any act or activity which may amount to an offence endangering national security", the government said in a statement.
"any content of a film which is objectively and reasonably capable of being perceived as endorsing, supporting, promoting, such act or activity" will be censored, according to the guideline.
[[nid:522086]]beijing imposed a national security law on hong kong in june that punishes what authorities broadly define as secession, sedition and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail, following a year of sometimes violent pro-democracy demonstrations.
western governments and international human rights groups have expressed concern the security law will crush freedoms in hong kong.
a filmmaker surnamed tang said the amendment would legitimise a crackdown on protest-related films and create a chilling effect on the movie industry.
"movies on social issues will be banned.
it will silence the filmmakers," tang said.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                washington d. c.  (bloomberg): fugitive malaysian financier low taek jho and a former member of hip-hop trio the fugees were accused in a new indictment of illegally lobbying the trump administration to drop an investigation tied to the 1malaysia development bhd (1mdb) global bribery scandal and remove a chinese dissident from the united states.
a federal grand jury on thursday (june 10) returned a superseding indictment against low, better known as jhow low, and prakazrel "pras" michel, according to a justice department statement friday (june 11).
low and michel's aim was to influence then-president donald trump's justice department to abandon the probe of low and others and extradite a wealthy chinese exile who has criticised the government in beijing.
that exile has not been identified by the justice department, but a person familiar with the matter has said it is guo wengui.
both low and michel were charged with money-laundering conspiracy, while michel was also accused of witness tampering and conspiring to make false statements to banks.
"pras intends to defend this case very vigorously and believes that when all of the facts are developed, a jury will conclude that this was a selective prosecution that has unfairly targeted mr michel and will exonerate him, " michel's lawyer, benjamin brafman, said in a statement.
with lauryn hill and wyclef jean, michel was a member of the fugees, which had some of the biggest hits of the 1990s.
low and michel were previously charged in 2019 with seeking to funnel millions of dollars of low's money into the us presidential election as legitimate campaign contributions while hiding the actual source of the funds.
prosecutors said the two men worked closely with trump fundraiser elliott broidy, who pleaded guilty last year to illegally lobbying the trump administration to help low squelch the 1mdb investigation and to seek the extradition of wengui from the united states.
trump pardoned broidy in january.
the back-channel efforts failed.
low was indicted in 2018 on charges of conspiring to launder billions of dollars embezzled from 1mdb.
low has denied wrongdoing and is considered a fugitive.
low had been a little-known financier who built a us$8bil (rm32.
86bil) fund intended to develop the malaysian economy.
authorities in the united states and malaysia allege he spent the pilfered money on parties, sports cars, luxury properties and priceless art.
goldman sachs group inc admitted its role in the scheme and its malaysia unit pleaded guilty last year, agreeing to pay more than us$2.
3bil (rm9.
45bil) in financial penalties, the largest in american history for violating us anti-bribery laws.
the unit was sentenced wednesday (june 9), triggering a us$1.
26bil (rm5.
18bil) payment for goldman sachs for the remaining fines.
bloomberg
tags / keywords:
jhow low
                                                                ,
                                                                                                1mdb
                                                                ,
                                                                                                united states
                                                                ,
                                                                                                trump
                                                                ,
                                                                                                china
                                                                ,
                                                                                                extradite
                                                                ,
                                                                                                justice department



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
cleaners from hong ye group were also linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test — both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases — an 82-year-old singaporean woman — was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for republication.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
st blazey, england (reuters) britain's queen elizabeth met us president joe biden under the canopy of the world's largest indoor rainforest on friday (june 11) as she hosted a reception for leaders of the group of seven (g-7) richest nations, who are holding a three-day summit.
the 95-year-old monarch was joined by the other senior members of the british royal family, with son and heir prince charles and his wife camilla and grandson prince william and his wife kate also present.
it was their first major public event together since the funeral in april of prince philip, the queen's husband of more than seven decades.
at the reception, held at the eden project, whose distinctive bubble-like biomes house thousands of plant varieties, the queen met biden as us president for the first time.
he is 13th american leader she has met during her record-breaking 69-year reign.
"joe and i are both looking forward to meeting the queen," biden's wife jill, who joined him at the eden project event, had said on thursday.
"that's an exciting part of the visit for us.
"they are also due to have tea with the monarch at windsor castle on sunday after the summit has concluded.
following a photocall with the queen, prince charles addressed the g-7 leaders about his sustainable markets initiative, which aims to involve business and private sector investment in government efforts to combat climate change.
"the fight against this terrible pandemic provides, if ever one was needed, a crystal-clear example of the scale, and sheer speed, at which the global community can tackle crises when we combine political will with business ingenuity and public mobilization," the prince told them.
"ladies and gentlemen, we are doing it for the pandemic.
so if you don't mind me saying so, we must also do it for the planet," said charles, 72, who has spent much of his life campaigning on environmental issues.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
keep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storieskeep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storiescarbis bay, england (ap) — leaders of the world's largest economies unveiled an infrastructure plan saturday for the developing world to compete with china's global initiatives, but they were searching for a consensus on how to forcefully to call out beijing over human rights abuses.
citing china for its forced labor practices is part of president joe biden's campaign to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing.
but while they agreed to work toward competing against china, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed biden's position, while germany, italy and the european union showed more hesitancy during saturday's first session of the group of seven summit, according to two senior biden administration officials.
the officials who briefed reporters were not authorized to publicly discuss the private meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.
the communique that summarizes the meeting's commitments was being written and the contents would not be clear until it was released when the summit ended sunday.
white house officials said late saturday that they believed that china, in some form, could be called out for "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses.
"in his first summit as president, biden made a point of carving out one-on-one-time with various leaders, bouncing from french president emmanuel macron to german chancellor angela merkel to italian prime minister mario draghi as well as japan's yoshihide suga and australia's scott morrison, a day after meeting with british prime minister boris johnson as if to personally try to ward off memories of the chaos that his predecessor would often bring to these gatherings.
macron told biden that collaboration was needed on a range of issues and told the american president that "it's great to have a u. s.  president part of the club and very willing to cooperate. "
relations between the allies had become strained during the four years of donald trump's presidency and his "america first" foreign policy.
merkel, for her part, downplayed differences on china and the nord stream 2 pipeline which would transport natural gas from russia to germany, bypassing ukraine.
"the atmosphere is very cooperative, it is characterized by mutual interest," merkel said.
"there are very good, constructive and very vivid discussions in the sense that one wants to work together.
"white house officials have said biden wants the leaders of the g-7 nations — the u. s. , britain, canada, france, germany, japan and italy — to speak in a single voice against forced labor practices targeting china's uyghur muslims and other ethnic minorities.
biden hopes the denunciation will be part of a joint statement to be released sunday when the summit ends, but some european allies are reluctant to split so forcefully with beijing.
china had become one of the more compelling sublots of the wealthy nations' summit, their first since 2019.  last year's gathering was canceled because of covid-19, and recovery from the pandemic is dominating this year's discussions, with leaders expected to commit to sharing at least 1 billion vaccine shots with struggling countries.
the allies also took the first steps in presenting an infrastructure proposal called "build back better for the world," a name echoing biden's campaign slogan.
the plan calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labor practices.
it's designed to compete with china's trillion-dollar "belt and road initiative," which has launched a network of projects and maritime lanes that snake around large portions of the world, primarily asia and africa.
critics say china's projects often create massive debt and expose nations to undue influence by beijing.
britain also wants the world's democracies to become less reliant on the asian economic giant.
the u. k.  government said saturday's discussions would tackle "how we can shape the global system to deliver for our people in support of our values," including by diversifying supply chains that currently heavily depend on china.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with china as the defining competition for the 21st century.
but there are some signs that europe is willing to impose greater scrutiny.
before biden took office in january, the european commission announced it had come to terms with beijing on a deal meant to provide europe and china with greater access to each other's markets.
the biden administration had hoped to have consultations on the pact.
but the deal has been put on hold, and the european union in march announced sanctions targeting four chinese officials involved with human rights abuses in xinjiang.
beijing responded with penalties on several members of the european parliament and other europeans critical of the chinese communist party.
biden administration officials see an opportunity to take concrete action to speak out against china's reliance on forced labor as an "affront to human dignity.
"while calling out china in the g-7 communique would not create any immediate penalties for beijing, one senior administration official said the action would send a message that the leaders were serious about defending human rights and working together to eradicate the use of forced labor.
an estimated 1 million people or more — most of them uyghurs — have been confined in reeducation camps in china's western xinjiang region in recent years, according to researchers.
chinese authorities have been accused of imposing forced labor, systematic forced birth control, torture and separating children from incarcerated parents.
beijing rejects allegations that it is committing crimes.
johnson, the summit host, also welcomed the leaders from "guest nations" south korea, australia and south africa, as well as the head of the united nations, to the summit to "intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations.
"the leaders planned to attend a barbecue saturday night, complete with toasted marshmallows, hot buttered rum and a performance by a sea shanty troupe.
india was also invited but its delegation is not attending in person because of the severe coronavirus outbreak in the country.
biden ends the trip wednesday by meeting in geneva with russia's vladimir putin.
the white house announced saturday that they will not hold a joint news conference afterward, which removes the opportunity for comparisons to the availability that followed trump and putin's 2018 helsinki summit, in which trump sided with moscow over his own intelligence agencies.
only biden will address the news media after the meeting.
putin, in an interview with nbc news, said the u. s. -russia relationship had "deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years.
"he added that while trump was a "talented" and "colorful" person, biden was a "career man" in politics, which has "some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements" by the u. s.  president.
___lemire reported from plymouth, england.
associated press writers danica kirka and sylvia hui in falmouth, england, contributed to this report.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
italy got their euro 2020 campaign off the mark with an impressive 3-0 win over turkey in the curtain-raiser for the postponed continental tournament in front of their home fans in rome on friday.
playing their first major tournament in five years after failing to qualify for the 2018 world cup, all the goals came in the second half in front of a stadio olimpico that was filled to a quarter of its capacity.
merih demiral's own goal put italy ahead before ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne netted for roberto mancini's side in the group a opener.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
"it was important to start well in rome and i think it's a satisfaction for the public and for italians," said mancini, whose side are now on a 28-match unbeaten run.
"there was a lot of help from the crowd.
it was a beautiful evening, i hope there are many others, but there are still six more for wembley.
""we were hoping for another result, but italy was dominant," said turkey coach senol gunes.
"the first goal changed things in the second half and we lost control of the game.
"there was a party atmosphere, with a spectacular sound and light show and firework display before kick-off for the opening of the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
berardi impresses -on the pitch, italy dominated early on with a three-man attack led by immobile, who plays for lazio.
the 31-year-old had several near misses in the first half, coming up against a solid turkey defence who held their own.
turkey could also thank goalkeeper ugurcan cakir for pulling off a big save on 23 minutes, tipping over italy captain giorgio chiellini's powerful goal-bound header off an insigne corner.
italy finally got on the scoreboard eight minutes after the break when the unfortunate demiral found himself in the path of a federico berardi cross for immobile, the juventus defender bundling the ball into his own net.
leonardo spinazzola had a chance for a second minutes later, with immobile sending the rebound wide.
immobile finally got his goal, his 14th for italy, and first in a major tournament, in the 66th minute, scoring from a rebound after cakir had saved from spinazzola.
and insigne curled in the third with 11 minutes to go.
sassuolo winger berardi had a role in all three goals, with italy scoring three for the first time in a european championship match.
all three italy forwards proved efficient on the night with a defence organised around juventus veterans chiellini and leonardo bonucci holding firm, securing a ninth straight clean sheet.
"we struggled at the start, we tried to accelerate but we hit a wall," said immobile.
"in the second half, they were a little more tired, they tried to rush us but the spaces opened up, and we saw our quality at that time.
"gianluigi donnarumma was largely unworried in the italy goal apart from a dangerous burak yilmaz cross after half an hour and a solo run by cengiz under after coming off the bench after the break.
"from a tactical point of view, italy was superior," said gunes.
"italy mastered the pitch and the ball.
they suffocated us with pressing and high pace, and they took advantage of playing at home.
"we have to react now.
"italy, looking for a second european title after 1968, next play switzerland in rome on wednesday, with 2008 semi-finalists turkey taking on wales in baku.
ea/jcchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
tjek lige prisen på zen med bl.
a.
7" easy link skærm med navigation og multi-sense køreprogrammer!
forbrug 66,67 km/l, 32 g/km co2 (bl.
kørsel wltp).
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
carbis bay, england: china on sunday (jun 13) pointedly cautioned group of seven leaders that the days when "small" groups of countries decided the fate of the world was long gone, hitting back at the world's richest democracies which have sought a unified position over beijing.
"the days when global decisions were dictated by a small group of countries are long gone," a spokesman for the chinese embassy in london said.
"we always believe that countries, big or small, strong or weak, poor or rich, are equals, and that world affairs should be handled through consultation by all countries.
"the re-emergence of china as a leading global power is considered to be one of the most significant geopolitical events of recent times, alongside the 1991 fall of the soviet union that ended the cold war.
the g7, whose leaders are meeting in southwestern england, has been searching for a coherent response to the growing assertiveness of president xi jinping after china's spectacular economic and military rise over the past 40 years.
leaders of the group the united states, canada, britain, germany, italy, france and japan want to use their gathering in the english seaside resort of carbis bay to show the world that the richest democracies can offer an alternative to china's growing clout.
canadian prime minister justin trudeau led a g7 discussion of china on saturday and called on leaders to come up with a unified approach to the challenges posed by the people's republic, a source said.
the g7 are planning to offer developing nations an infrastructure scheme that could rival xi's multi-trillion-dollar belt and road initiative.
beijing has repeatedly hit back against what it perceives as attempts by western powers to contain china, and says many major powers are still gripped by an outdated imperial mindset after years of humiliating china.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's movement control order, known as mco 3.
0, will be extended for another two weeks from jun 15 to jun 28. senior minister for defence ismail sabri yaakob announced in a statement on friday (jun 11) that the decision to extend the mco 3.
0 was made as daily case numbers still exceeded 5,000.
"the positive/negative list (permitted and prohibited activities) and standard operating procedures (sops) for every manufacturing, business and industrial activity still remains as announced before this," he said after attending a national security council meeting.
in may, a nationwide mco was re-imposed in malaysia amid a third wave of covid-19 cases.
known as mco 3.
0, all economic sectors were allowed to operate during the period but cross-district and interstate travel as well as social, sports and educational activities were prohibited.
stricter restrictions on the economic and social sectors were later announced on may 21 as community cases continued to rise.
the emergence of new variants have also delayed efforts to flatten the infection curve, the prime minister's office had said.
on may 28, prime minister muhyiddin yassin announced that the country would go intototal lockdownfor 14 days beginning jun 1, with only essential economic and service sectors allowed to carry on with their operations.
case number breached the 9,000-mark on may 29, before the lockdown measures brought daily infections down gradually.
on friday, a total of 6,846 cases were reported.
if the first phase of total lockdown could reduce the number of daily cases, then the country would ease into a four-week second phase, where more economic sectors would be allowed to reopen.
phase 3 would be similar to the movement control order (mco) that has been enforced in the country, where nearly all economic sectors are allowed to operate with strict sops.
the progression from one phase to another would be subject to the ministry of health's risk assessments.
as of friday, malaysia's national covid-19 tally stood at 646,411. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: owners of gyms and fitness studios have welcomed news that indoor mask-off activities will be allowed to resume on jun 21, describing it as a relief after weeks of tightened curbs.
the easing of restrictions was announced on thursday (jun 10) as part of singapore's plans to enterphase 3 (heightened alert)after a fall in the number of covid-19 community cases.
this will take place in two phases: social gathering group sizes will be increased from jun 14; and if the situation remains under control, other restrictions such as the resumption of dining-in and other higher-risk mask-off activities will be allowed a week later on jun 21. mr shane parsons, the co-owner of fitness studio f45 lower peirce reservoir, said the news was a pleasant surprise as he had been "prepared for the worst".
"we were all feeling kind of lost every time these lockdown restrictions happened.
so .
.
.
at least we feel we're moving in a positive direction again.
"by jun 21, it'll be over six weeks with nearly zero revenue – that's been tough .
.
.
ultimately, we can see the light at the end of the tunnel," said mr parsons.
under current tightened measures forphase two (heightened alert), from may 16 to jun 13, only low-intensity physical activities are allowed at gyms and fitness studios – with masks on at all times.
that means studios focusing on high-intensity workouts, such as mr parson's, have been unable to operate as per normal.
the same goes for ritual, a gym chain with four locations in singapore, which has been operating at 20 per cent of its usual capacity, said its ceo, mr brad robinson.
"for us to be able to edge closer back to our typical business model (of high-intensity workouts) and normalcy was obviously met with happiness across the board.
"mr saumik bera, the director of real yoga, added: "i felt like i could breathe (again), because this phase 2 was like a coma to me, and all of us.
"new measures in placewhen indoor mask-off sports activities resume, participants will need to be at least 2m apart from each other.
indoor and outdoor sports classes can also be held in multiple groups of five – with a cap of 30 people, including the instructor.
the groups have to be at least 3m apart.
businesses cna spoke to said they are prepared for this, as similar social distancing rules were introduced when singapore entered phase 2 last year.
come jun 21, employees of such places will also have to be regularly tested for covid-19, due to the higher-risk settings.
like other fitness studio owners, real yoga's mr bera agreed with the need for this: "we see quite a number of people every day and don't know who carries what kinds of viruses, so i'm supportive of this that the frontliners should be responsible to protect society.
"the government will cover the cost of these tests for the next three months.
beyond that, employers will have to "start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their business continuity plans", said finance minister lawrence wong on thursday at a press conference by the multi-ministry task force on covid-19.
these costs,  on top of capacity constraints, will have an impact on business, said f45 lower peirce reservoir's mr parsons.
but he added that the studio will do "whatever it takes to keep moving forward".
ritual's mr robinson also said: "we're all for anything that allows our business to get back to pre-pandemic revenue, or as close to it as possible.
"our cost base has gone up and revenue has gone down so that's obviously a double whammy.
but again .
.
.
you adapt to just survive and move ahead.
"he added that details of the testing regime, including costs, have yet to be revealed.
ms yang jiamin, the founder of jyan yoga, suggested that the subsidies should be extended.
"three months is definitely not enough, considering covid has been around for a year already and we don't know when it's going to go away, or how this is going to be the new norm for us.
"to be more reasonable, probably about six months to a year (of subsidies) would be good.
"another suggestion from mr parson: "if gyms and fitness studios are really considered higher-risk settings, then workers should be prioritised for early vaccination.
"adapting to phase 3 (heightened alert)fitness studios are gearing up to welcome more members, but they do not expect business to bounce back immediately.
real yoga's mr bera said he anticipates that "many will still be afraid to come out of the house".
so while there will be more in-person classes, online classes will be kept as a staple.
jyan yoga's ms yang is also working on ways to bring members back.
"we are adding new classes to our curriculum to entice people to come down to the studio," she said, adding that they are also working on new merchandise that will compliment these in-person classes.
ritual and f45 lower peirce reservoir are also only expecting a gradual return of customers.
still, an in-person experience is key because it helps cultivate a sense of community – part of the appeal of gyms and fitness studios, said f45's mr parsons.
"after 3m distancing, masks on, and no shared equipment .
.
.
we can't wait for a day in the future when all of this behind us and our members are giving high-fives after class, freely going off and have dinner and drinks after".
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                kuala lumpur (bernama): the government is expected to cover fuel and cooking oil subsidies up to rm8bil, which is rm4.
22bil more than the initial rm3.
78bil allocated for this year.
the government has spent rm6.
32bil on fuel and cooking oil subsidies in 2019 and rm2.
16bil for 2020. finance minister tengku datuk seri zafrul abdul aziz said the higher allocation this year was due to the increase in current global market prices.
following the increase in commodity prices globally, government subsidies for ron95 petroleum products, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) as well as subsidised cooking oil are expected to increase sharply.
"the government is prepared to bear the higher subsidy expenditure to preserve the well-being of the people and the viability of businesses, especially small traders," the finance ministry said in a statement on saturday (june 12).
tengku zafrul said the government would continue to help the people through various measures, including continuing to subsidise fuel and cooking oil to help reduce the impact of rising commodity prices globally on the people's cost of living.
he said the government would continue with the price maintenance policy of rm2.
05 per litre for ron95 petrol and rm2.
15 per litre for diesel which had been maintained since feb 10. meanwhile, the price of lpg was maintained at rm1.
90 per kg since june 2015 and subsidised cooking oil was worth rm2.
50 per one kg pack since 1997, he said.
he added that various budget 2021 measures and improved initiatives through permai, pemerkasa and pemerkasa plus will continue to be channelled at least until december 2021. bernama
tags / keywords:
subsidies
                                                                ,
                                                                                                fuel
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cooking oil
                                                                ,
                                                                                                finance ministry
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tengku zafrul abdul aziz
                                                                ,
                                                                                                lpg



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
advertisementby marc santoramore than two centuries after his ancestor was cast out of cornwall for stealing and sent to australia with hundreds of other convicts, scott morrison returned to the area on friday as prime minister of australia.
"it's a long time since one of my family was in cornwall," mr.  morrison said in a speech in perth on wednesday before traveling to meet with other world leaders at the group of 7 conference.
while the issues of the day were at the center of his agenda as an invited guest at the summit, it was also an unusual homecoming of sorts.
the main location of the gathering, carbis bay, is about 60 miles from the market in launceston where his ancestor, william roberts, stole "five pound and a half-weight of yarn" in 1786, according to the australian associated press.
mr.  morrison said mr.  roberts was his "fifth great-grandfather.
""he stole some yarn in cornwall, and the rest is history," mr.  morrison said.
"more than 200 years of it, so it'll be interesting to be going back there.
"mr.  roberts was part of a group of over 1,400 people who set sail in 11 ships from portsmouth, england on may 13, 1787 — part of the infamous "first fleet" — transporting military leaders, sailors and convicts across the world.
"a wide variety of people made up this legendary 'first fleet,'" according to the national geographic society.
"military and government officials, along with their wives and children, led the group.
sailors, cooks, masons and other workers hoped to establish new lives in the new colony.
"the first fleet included more than 700 convicts — the start of what would be more than 80 years of britain's shipping off convicts to serve out their sentences in new south wales, now a state in southeastern australia.
britain sent more than 160,000 convicts to australia in that time, and it is estimated that about 20 percent of present-day australians can trace their ancestry to them.
mr.  morrison is not the first australian leader to trace his roots back to a convict.
genealogists traced former prime minister kevin rudd's family line to an english woman who barely escaped the hangman's noose.
in 1788, mary wade — mr.  rudd's paternal fifth-great-grandmother — was convicted at the old bailey in london of having robbed an 8-year-old girl of her dress and underwear in a bathroom.
ms.  wade is said to have declared at her trial: "i was in a good mind to have chucked her down" the toilet.
"i wish i had done so.
"she was sentenced "to be hanged by the neck til she be dead," but her sentence was commuted and she was shipped off to australia.
advertisement
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
while she is currently not linked to existing clusters, other cleaners from hong ye group have been linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases an 82-year-old singaporean woman was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
correction note: this story has been edited for clarity.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new coronavirus infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said yesterday that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said.
he did not say which period of time the average daily figure of 6,871 was based on.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel and social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire after next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded in total.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases yesterday, the highest this week, bringing the total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deemed that the curbs were successful in reducing infection numbers.
the ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow, with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed to reopen.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing to something similar to last month's mco, in which most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols were allowed, while social activities remained banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 receiving jabs on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
malaysia yesterday started to deploy four mobile vaccine trucks to inoculate some 7,200 residents of public housing projects in kuala lumpur, as the country races to speed up its vaccination drive.
the three-day programme, which will run until tomorrow, involves four areas in the kuala lumpur federal territory.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
by yew lun tianbeijing (reuters) china passed a wide-ranging law to counter foreign sanctions on thursday, in an apparent move to legalise its tit-for-tat retaliation against punitive actions taken by foreign countries over issues from human rights to hong kong.
the law, effective immediately, builds upon previous administrative counter-measures against foreign sanctions issued by the chinese foreign and commerce ministries.
it also lays out the scope of china's counter-sanctions.
who's the target?individuals or entities involved in the making or implementation of discriminatory measures against chinese citizens, or interfering with china's internal affairs could be put onto a blacklist, according to the full text of the law published on thursday.
blacklisted individuals could find their relatives, and the organisations of which they are senior managers or have control over placed on the list.
"relevant departments" in the chinese government can decide who to put on or remove from the blacklist.
what happens to those blacklisted?those blacklisted could be denied entry into china or deported from china.
their assets within china can be sealed, seized or frozen.
entities within china could be restricted from engaging in all forms of transactions or cooperation or other activities, potentially limiting the investment activities of blacklisted entities in china.
chinese citizens or organisations can sue in chinese courts those who enforce foreign measures that discriminate against them.
how is this different from the past?while the foreign ministry has previously announced sanctions mainly against individuals including western politicians and scholars, it had not cited a specific law as the legal basis.
it was also not always clear what those sanctions entailed.
although the commerce ministry has announced mechanisms targeted at foreign entities such as a so-called "unreliable entity list", there have been no known instances of companies being put on the list.
the new law combines many features of these administrative orders by the foreign and commerce ministries, such as allowing chinese companies to sue for compensation and denying entry to blacklisted persons.
beijing analysts say the new law makes china's sanctions appear less random, as it spells out who can be blacklisted and what the sanctions would entail.
what do supporters say?state media and experts in china said the new law was a long overdue "legal weapon" needed to deter the west from interfering in china's internal affairs.
all 14 vice-chairpersons of china's legislature who passed the law have been under u. s.  sanctions for passing the national security law last year that critics say has crippled political freedoms in hong kong.
in other measures, the united states issued a ban on cotton and tomato imports from china's western xinjiang region in january, citing human rights violations and the use of forced labour in the region.
wang jiangyu, a law professor at city university of hong kong, said the european union has a law the "blocking statute" to counter u. s.  sanctions, so china should not be faulted for having a similar law.
"the new law is the stick part of the carrot and stick diplomacy.
but it is defensive in nature, not offensive, and will only be used when other countries apply sanctions on us first," said cheng xiaohe, an associate professor of international studies at the renmin university of china.
what do critics say?foreign companies increasingly fear they will be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess, said joerg wuttke, president of european union chamber of commerce.
chinese experts say the law could dampen the climate for foreign investment, but that the chinese government would have calculated this is a price worth paying to safeguard the country's interests.
(reporting by yew lun tian; editing by frances kerry)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"prøv niro plug-in hybrid og kom med på den elektriske bølge.
kør på strøm til hverdag og hybrid, når du skal langtwhat if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
kuala lumpur malaysia on friday extended a national lockdown imposed to curb a surge in coronavirus infections for two more weeks, with the latest restrictions to end on june 28, security minister ismail sabri yaakob said.
the lockdown, originally set to end on june 14, was announced as the southeast asian nation began reporting record levels of covid-19 infections and deaths last month.
malaysia on friday reported 6,849 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 646,411, with 3,768 deaths overall.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
carbis bay (britain) • leaders of the group of seven rich nations yesterday adopted a rival plan to oppose china's belt and road initiative (bri) by helping build infrastructure in poorer nations in a "values-driven, high-standard and transparent" partnership.
the adoption of the united states-inspired "build back better world" (b3w) project came after us president joe biden and other g-7 leaders met to address "strategic competition with china and commit to concrete actions to help meet the tremendous infrastructure need in low-and middle-income countries", the white house said.
china has been widely criticised for saddling small countries with unmanageable debt as part of its trillion-dollar belt and road initiative, which has seen money lent for projects stretching across asia, africa, latin america and even europe.
president xi jinping launched the bri in 2013 to significantly expand china's economic and political influence, with many of the infrastructure plans seen as helping to deliver its goods globally.
china denies any ulterior motives in the vast investment project.
but critics argue it uses the financial leverage arising from the scheme to boost its clout, in what they dub "debt-trap diplomacy".
the white house said the g-7 initiative would be similarly global in scope, estimating that the developing world needs more than us$40 trillion (s$53 trillion) in infrastructure, a gap "which has been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic".
"b3w will collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment for low-and middle-income countries in the coming years," it said.
funding will emphasise the environment and climate, labour safeguards, transparency and anti-corruption, it added, in implicit contrast with china's opaque funding.
further details would come in the g-7 summit's final communique today, the white house added.
the rival plan comes after the us and china clashed in rare talks on friday, with mr biden's administration pressing beijing on covid-19, taiwan and human rights.
in a telephone call with china's top diplomat yang jiechi, us secretary of state antony blinken renewed us pressure on china over the origins of the pandemic that has killed more than 3.
7 million people.
he "stressed the importance of cooperation and transparency regarding the origin of the virus", including allowing world health organisation experts back into china, state department spokesman ned price said in a statement.
mr biden has ordered us intelligence to report back by late august on whether the sars-cov-2 virus that causes covid-19, which was first detected in late 2019 in the chinese city of wuhan, emerged from an animal source or a laboratory accident.
b3w will collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment for low-and middle-income countries in the coming years.
mr yang told mr blinken that the laboratory theory was "absurd", according to the state-run china global television network.
"we urge the us side to respect facts and science, not to politicise the origin tracing and to focus its attention on international cooperation on the fight against the pandemic," mr yang said.
according to china central television, mr yang told mr blinken: "genuine multilateralism is not pseudo-multilateralism based on the interests of small circles.
"the leaders of g-7 nations britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the us are largely focused on "building back better" after covid-19 wrecked economies and claimed millions of lives around the world.
they were set yesterday to outline a joint declaration aimed at preventing another pandemic, as part of their wide-ranging talks on the second day of the summit in britain.
the leaders are also set to issue new commitments on climate change, including financial aid for the developing world.
the agenda broadened yesterday to foreign policy issues, as they were joined by the leaders of australia, south africa and south korea, with india taking part remotely.
mr biden was expected to seek to address frayed relations with moscow, in particular over its cyber activity.
agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
carbis bay, britain (afp) leaders of the group of seven (g-7) rich nations were set on saturday (june 12) to agree on a joint declaration aimed at preventing another pandemic, as they resume wide-ranging talks at their first in-person summit in almost two years.
the "carbis bay declaration" – named after the seaside town in cornwall, south-west england, where united states president joe biden and other leaders are meeting this weekend – comprises a series of health policy commitments.
the collective steps include slashing the time taken to develop and license vaccines, treatments and diagnostics for any future disease to under 100 days, while reinforcing global surveillance networks.
it will be formally published on sunday (june 13), alongside the g-7's final communique.
"the #carbisbaydeclaration marks a proud and historic moment for us all," british prime minister boris johnson said on twitter, as he chaired the second day of the three-day summit.
"under this agreement, the world's leading democracies will commit to preventing a global pandemic from ever happening again, ensuring the devastation caused by covid-19 is never repeated," he said.
world health organisation chief tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, criticised in some quarters for being too accommodating towards china where the coronavirus was first detected, welcomed the health pact.
he also said the united nations agency would examine a british proposal to create a "global pandemic radar" to send early warnings of future outbreaks.
"the world needs a stronger global surveillance system to detect new epidemic and pandemic risks," dr tedros said.
however, aid charity oxfam said the declaration "does nothing to address the fundamental problems that are preventing vaccines being accessible to the vast majority of humanity".
the g-7 is meeting face-to-face for the first time since 2019 in cornwall.
photo: nytimes
the g-7 – britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the united states – are largely focussed on "building back better" after covid-19 wrecked economies and claimed millions of lives around the world.
they are expected to pledge to donate one billion vaccine doses to poor countries this year and next – although campaigners say the rollout is much too slow to end the crisis sooner.
the leaders are also set to issue new commitments on climate change, including financial aid for the developing world, in the buildup to the un's cop26 environmental summit in scotland in november.
britain's queen elizabeth ii with g-7 leaders during an evening reception at the eden project on june 11, 2021.  photo: reuters
the agenda broadened on saturday to foreign policy issues, as the g-7 was joined by the leaders of australia, south africa and south korea, with india taking part remotely.
president biden is expected to press allies to bolster cooperation in dealing with a resurgent china, from offering an alternative to its trillion-dollar "belt and road" infrastructure initiative to confronting its alleged forced labour practices including against the muslim uighur minority in xinjiang region.
"this is not just about confronting or taking on china," a senior white house official said.
"this is about providing an affirmative, positive alternative vision for the world.
"he said mr biden would be urging "concrete action" on the forced labour accusations, calling them "an affront to human dignity, and an egregious example of china's unfair economic competition".
china denies allegations that it is waging "genocide" by forcing uighurs and people from other ethnic-turkic minorities into internment camps in xinjiang.
the us president will also seek to address frayed relations with moscow, in particular over its cyber activity.
most of the g-7 leaders will reconvene on monday in brussels for a nato meeting, before mr biden heads on to his first summit with russian president vladimir putin in geneva, vowing to deliver a blunt message about russian behaviour.
in a rare interview with us media released on friday, mr putin voiced hope that mr biden would be less impetuous than former us president donald trump, who infamously sided with the russian leader against the views of his own intelligence chiefs.
"it is my great hope that, yes, there are some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements on behalf of the sitting us president," mr putin told nbc news.
closer to home for the g-7 hosts, mr johnson came under concerted pressure in separate meetings with the leaders of france, germany and the european union to respect his brexit commitments over northern ireland.
"the prime minister expressed confidence in the uk's position in the northern ireland protocol," a defiant downing street responded, referring to special brexit arrangements for the restive province.
"he made clear his desire for pragmatism and compromise on all sides but underlined that protecting the belfast good friday (peace) agreement in all its dimensions was paramount.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
new delhi: india on saturday (jun 12) reported 84,332 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 case load now stands at 29.
4 million, while total fatalities are at 367,081, data.
india added 4,002 deaths overnight.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, but the discovery ofseveral thousand unreported deaths in the state of biharhas raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore at least 700 people who had visited ion orchard in the past two weeks turned up to get tested for covid-19 at two medical centres on saturday (june 12).
about 600 people were tested at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city, while about 100 went to raffles medical centre in shaw centre.
a fullerton health spokesman said: "today was slightly busier than usual, but was well within our testing centre's capacity, and we were able to accommodate smoothly.
"long lines formed outside and inside shaw centre as people waited for their turn to get swabbed at raffles medical centre from 8.
30am.
on friday, the ministry of health reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion orchard had tested positive for covid-19.
she is the third worker at ion orchard to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall and offer testing to mall visitors and staff.
most of the people in the line said they were getting tested just to be safe.
others, like housewife madam aparna, 71, said she and her husband wanted to get tested for the safety of the people around them.
"we are doing it more for the others," she said.
the couple had visited the daiso outlet in ion on tuesday for about 30 minutes.
madam aparna added that they have both been fully vaccinated and feel safe.
ms margie ceitom, 39, a maid who was at shaw centre with her employer, said she did not have any symptoms, but since she and her employer had visited ion on may 27, the two of them decided to get tested.
another man in the line, who wanted to be known only as mr ng, 51, said he could not remember when he visited ion but had received a message from the tracetogether app a few days ago.
he said: "the message said i may have been possibly exposed to a covid-19 case.
"mr ng, who is a manager, added that he did not feel nervous.
he said that the decision to get tested was to be responsible and to make sure he was safe.
people queueing to get tested for covid-19 at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city on june 12, 2021.  st photo: alphonsus chern

a queue outside the testing centre at raffles medical centre at shaw centre on june 12, 2021.  st photo: jason quah
mr james quan, 53, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, said the level 8 carpark at ion is being used as a testing site for the mall's staff.
in a letter to tenants dated june 11 and seen by the straits times, all store staff were told to register for a swab test before 12pm on saturday using an online link.
in the letter, ion reminded store staff to be punctual for their appointed slot to avoid crowding.
mr quan, who works from home, said his shop staff will be tested from 4pm on saturday.
he added that this is the weekend before father's day, which falls on june 20, and stores may have been anticipating more sales because shoppers would have planned to buy gifts.
mr quan said he was not worried that his business would be affected, as he has three other outlets, including an online site.
his ion outlet is the smallest one.
he said: "one of my outlets is just next door, in takashimaya.
if i had only one store and no online site, it would have been a big blow to the business.
"attempts by st to enter the ion orchard carpark were unsuccessful.
a security guard at the entrance stopped a member of the media from going in.
people were still using the ion paterson link to get to other malls or to exit orchard mrt station.
ion orchard will be shut until 7am next wednesday (june 16).
st photo: jason quah

a closed ion orchard on june 12, 2021.  st photo: jason quah
at raffles city shopping centre, ms annie ang, who is in her late 50s, and her friend, mrs sharon ho, who is in her 60s were queuing up to get tested at fullerton health testing centre.
ms ang said: "we arrived here at about 2pm and it was very fast.
i took only 20 minutes to complete everything.
"the women, both of whom have received their covid-19 shots, live near ion orchard and went there to buy food on june 7. ion orchard will be shut for four days from 7am on saturday until 7am next wednesday for cleaning and disinfecting works after the moh confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to june 11 are being offered free covid-19 testing from saturday.
staff who worked at the mall from may 28 to june 11 will also be tested.
additional reporting by alphonsus chernjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
bts is a brand ambassador for louis vuitton.
they also have their own "bt21" characters, in conjunction with line friends.
recently, this k-pop group released their own meal at the fast-food chain, mcdonald's.
however, the "bts meal" is only available for purchase for a limited time.
they're smooth like "butter" and a partner of the fast-food chain mcdonald's.
recently, the k-pop group, bts, released their bts meal, which is currently available for purchase at the fast-food chain.
"bts truly lights up the world stage, uniting people across the globe through their music," said morgan flatley, chief marketing officer, mcdonald's usa said in a statement.
"we're excited to bring customers even closer to their beloved band in a way only mcdonald's can – through our delicious food – when we introduce the bts signature order on our menu next month.
"additionally, new bags, sandals, shirts, and everything in between will be dotted with hues of purple and added to the weverse app as a result of this mcdonald's partnership.
thanks to a fake phone call from jin, the bts x mcdonald's merchandise also includes photocards and is only available for a limited time.
related: is jungkook the last bts member to create a solo song?
here's what we know about 'still with you' and the mixtapes of these k-pop idolsthis meal includes chicken mcnuggets, medium fries, and a medium drink, which are available for purchase off of the regular mcdonald's menu.
what makes the bts meal special, in addition to bts-themed bags in select countries, are the two sauces picked by the bts members — sweet chili and cajun.
just like the travis scott and j balvin meal, the bts meal will not stay at mcdonald's locations for a long period of time.
originally released during may 2021, the bts meal will be available at mcdonald's in the united states through june 20, according to usa today.
it's unclear if the two sauces will remain at international mcdonald's locations following this meal.
additionally, the mcdonald's and bts merchandise collection is available for purchase through the weverse shop app, although it's unclear how long that will be listed for fans to splurge on.
related: jimin from bts finally puts the 'dumpling incident,' mentioned during 'the late late show with james corden,' to restaside from this partnership with mcdonald's, bts released collaborations with brands like samsung, the coca-cola company, and starbucks.
these artists also release official merchandise with the weverse app and in conjunction with line friends, featuring the bt21 characters.
the bts meal is now available for purchase at mcdonald's locations in the united states.
music by the k-pop group, including "butter," is available on most major streaming platforms.
an incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace is yet another reminder of beijing's belligerence, says this observernew south wales: earlier this month, 16 chinese military transport aircraft weresighted a little more than 100kmoff the coast of the east malaysian state of sarawak.
the royal malaysian air force called it "a serious threat to national sovereignty".
the ministry of foreign affairs summoned china's ambassador to malaysia to voice its displeasure over the incursion into malaysian airspace.
however, china's foreign ministry spokesperson dismissed malaysian concerns by claiming that the aircraft were there for "routine flight exercises".
malaysia is not alone in being wary of chinese intentions in the region.
china's infamous "nine-dash line" around the south china sea and unilateral claims to as much as 80 per cent of the disputed waters, along with the construction of artificial islands, has caused much consternation.
regular incursions by chinese fishing trawlers have occurred in indonesian, vietnamese and filipino waters, and the belligerence displayed by chinese naval vessels and aircraft has further fuelled suspicions.
southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
the incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace comes barely two months after a controversial remark by the malaysian foreign affairs minister hishammuddin hussein during a visit to fujian province in southern china on apr 1. hishammuddin told his chinese counterpart wang yi that "you will always be my elder brother".
prominent malaysian opposition leader anwar ibrahim lamented that "this is not the language and style that should be used in the diplomatic world and international relations, as it seemingly implies malaysia is a puppet to a foreign power".
anwar urged hishammuddin to retract his comment and apologise to malaysians.
hishammuddin later clarified that his remark was meant to show his respect to wang, who is an older person and a very senior diplomat.
china as a superpowerhishammudin should have been more cautious with his language.
his remarks offer a further warning of the potential cost to southeast asian leaders of being seen to defer to china's sphere of influence.
beijing has calculated that as china gained stature as a superpower southeast asian nations would not, and could not, challenge its economic and military might.
this was underscored after president xi jinping announced in 2015 that china had no intention of militarising the south china sea, only to then proceeded to build more artificial islands and install missiles and erect buildings and military bases on those islands.
the risk for hishammudin was to again reinforce this lesson.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
southeast asian countries, including malaysia, recognise that none of them has the capability to match china's military might.
and the region does indeed have deep ties with china economically, which beijing is eager to grow.
construction of a high-speed railway service linking kunming in yunnan province with singapore as part of the belt and road initiative (bri) remains a top priority for china.
however, southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
china has been actively cultivating malaysia through the funding and construction of massive infrastructure projects.
in 2016, the east coast rail link (ecrl) costing 65.
5 billion ringgit (us$15.
8 billion) was launched to link kuantan on the eastern coast with ports in the western coast.
the melaka gateway, a us$10.
5 billion commercial and property development project, was awarded to a malaysian company that included three chinese commercial partners.
three pipelines were also awarded to chinese companies at a cost of us$4.
1 billion.
tight economic tiesmalaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
yet after the ruling barisan nasional was voted out of office in 2018, the incoming prime minister mahathir mohamed proceeded to review these projects.
in a visit to beijing in august 2018, he warned about the "new version of colonialism" where rich countries preyed on poorer ones in what was taken to be a swipe to china.
the three planned pipelines were scrapped a month later.
mahathir renegotiated terms for the ecrl and reduced the cost to 44 billion ringgit in 2019. with the collapse of the mahathir government in february 2020, prime minister muhyiddin yassin proceeded to mend ties with china.
in april this year, it was announced that the renegotiated ecrl would cost 50 billion ringgit.
however, the malacca state government cancelled the melaka gateway project in november 2020 on the basis that there had been "no development".
malaysia's experience in an example of how china influence is conditioning behaviour in southeast asia.
in 2019, nikkei asia reported that the 10-member association of southeast asian nations had overtaken the united states as the second-largest trading partner for china.
chinese investments also flow into southeast asia, largely through the bri, the global times reporting in november 2020 that china's investment in southeast asia was more than 76 per cent of the total investment in countries and regions linked with the bri.
but none of this should be cause for southeast asian leaders to surrender sovereign interests to a bully in beijing.
malaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
malaysia should take a lesson of its own, that china has a "new version of colonialism".
responding collectively as a region should be the priority.
jason lim is senior lecturer in asian history at the university of wollongong and the international history review editor of the asian studies review.
this commentaryfirst appearedin the lowy institute's blog the interpreter.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a four-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his three-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan, who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000), is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020, was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have three- or four-room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a two-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his four-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two food and beverage establishments have been ordered to close after breaching safe management measures.
steamov steamboat buffet restaurant in beach road will be closed for 30 days and the starz bistro in east coast road for 10 days, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment (mse) on friday (june 11).
meanwhile, 77 people have been fined for breaching safe management measures (smms) in parks under tightened covid-19 rules that came into effect on may 16.  the curbs will gradually ease starting on june 14. two retail outlets giant supermarket at bedok shopping complex and cold storage supermarket at condominium siglap v near east coast road have been fined $1,000 each for not having staff to oversee their safe entry checkpoints.
with dining in slated to resume from june 21, government agencies will step up enforcement at f&b establishments and take firm action against any breaches of covid-19 rules, said the mse.
such breaches include the failure to maintain a 1m safe distance between groups and to prevent them from intermingling, allowing group sizes larger than five people, serving and allowing the consumption of alcohol after 10.
30pm, and providing live entertainment and games.
"enforcement actions will include fines, closures even for first offence, and the revoking of food shop, public entertainment or liquor licences," said the ministry.
it reminded patrons and operators of f&b establishments to strictly adhere to safe management measures as these places are high-risk settings where coronavirus transmission has taken place in recent weeks.
mse also said the national parks board will continue to temporarily close access to some parks and sections of beaches, lawns and facilities such as hardcourts, shelters and carparks when these areas get too crowded or where people remain non-compliant with safe management measures.
nparks has advised  compliance with safe management measures on more than 6,000 instances to parkgoers who were not wearing masks, and on more than 800 occasions to people who had gathered in groups of more than two, added the ministry.
these were verbally given by enforcement officers.
the latest breach is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant's third offence.
it had allowed customers to dine there at 9.
30pm on may 28. the starz bistro had done so on may 22, and also allowed customers to consume alcohol after 10.
30pm that day.
mse said the closure orders for both eateries will take effect when dining in is allowed to resume.
it said that agencies have identified places where safe management measures are more frequently breached and have stepped up enforcement presence there.
these hot spots includes parks and common areas of housing board estates such as hardcourts, basketball courts and pavilions.
"where repeated breaches of smms have been observed, agencies will close off facilities to ensure the safety of the community," added the ministry.
for example, a pavilion at block 90 pipit road was cordoned off on may 31 after a group of more than 12 people were found gathering there for dance sessions on multiple occasions.
"we therefore urge members of the public to use these facilities responsibly," said mse.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
hong kong • the top us diplomat in hong kong said the imposition of a new national security law had created an "atmosphere of coercion" that threatens both the city's freedoms and its standing as an international business hub.
in unusually strident remarks to reuters this week, us consul-general hanscom smith called it "appalling" that beijing's influence had "vilified" routine diplomatic activities such as meeting local activists, part of a government crackdown on foreign forces that was "casting a pall over the city".
critics of the legislation say the law has crushed the city's democratic opposition, civil society and western-style freedoms.
the foreign forces issue is at the heart of the crimes of "collusion" with foreign countries or "external elements" detailed in article 29 of the security law, scholars say.
article 29 outlaws a range of direct or indirect links with a "foreign country or an institution, organisation or individual" outside greater china, covering offences from the stealing of secrets and waging war to engaging in "hostile activities" and "provoking hatred".
they can be punished by up to life in prison.
mr smith is a career us foreign service officer who has deep experience in china and the wider region, serving in shanghai, beijing and taiwan before arriving in hong kong in july 2019. he made his comments in an interview at the us diplomatic mission in hong kong on wednesday, after reuters sought the consulate's views on the impact of the national security law.
in a response to reuters, hong kong's security bureau said that "normal interactions and activities" were protected, and blamed external elements for interfering in the city during the protests that engulfed hong kong in 2019.
"there are indications in investigations and intelligence that foreign intervention was rampant, with money, supplies and other forms of support," a representative said.
he did not identify specific individuals or groups.
government adviser and former security chief regina ip told reuters it was only "china haters" who had reason to worry about falling foul of the law.
"there must be criminal intent, not just casual chat," she said.
fourteen asian and western diplomats who spoke to reuters for this story said they were alarmed at attempts by hong kong prosecutors to treat links between local politicians and foreign envoys as potential national security threats.
"it's appalling that people would take a routine interaction with a foreign government representative and attribute something sinister to it," mr smith said.
hong kong yesterday slammed a british government report that said beijing was using the security law to "drastically curtail freedoms" in the city.
the hong kong authorities also this week lambasted the european union for denouncing hong kong's recent overhaul of its political system.
although local officials said last year that the security law would affect only a "tiny minority" of people, more than 100 have been arrested under the law.
retired judges said they were shocked at the broad use of foreign connections by prosecutors.
one told reuters he did not see how that approach would be sustainable, as the government accredits diplomats, whose job is to meet people, including politicians.
hong kong's judiciary said it would not comment on individual cases.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published: 6:30pm, 12 jun, 2021updated: 8:56pm, 12 jun, 2021
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singaporeans studying in australian institutions are looking forward to a proposed travel bubble between the two countries, as they may finally be able to return to their campuses there or spend holidays with their families here.
prime minister lee hsien loong and his australian counterpart scott morrison said on thursday that the two countries are working towards an air travel bubble.
they hoped singapore students in australia, whose studies have been disrupted by the covid-19 travel restrictions, would be the first to get the opportunity to travel under the arrangement.
all six students the straits times spoke to on friday (june 11) expressed optimism about the travel bubble.
for first-year students like mr chris gan, who is doing his bachelor's degree in politics, philosophy and economics at the australian national university, it will be his first chance to set foot on its campus.
the 21-year-old said he was not too concerned that the travel bubble may be one-way.
"i am confident singaporeans will be able to travel to australia too.
"mr sun yuchen, 23, a third-year student at the university of melbourne who is currently on a year's leave of absence, is looking forward to returning to campus.
"i see a chance for me to return to australia to complete my studies and gain experience by using actual facilities the school provides," he said.
singaporeans who are currently in australia, such as university of new south wales student joseph tan, look forward to reuniting with family here.
the 23-year-old, who has been in australia since february last year, said he had been unable to return home, as his degree in aviation requires him to attend flying lessons there.
he added: "the travel bubble between singapore and australia comes as a relief to me as i have the opportunity to finally return home and see my family after being away for so long.
even if i can only return for a few days, it is comforting to return home again.
"students who returned to singapore when the covid-19 pandemic worsened said the past year had been tough for them.
psychology student audrey chan, 23, is a final-year student at the university of queensland.
she has been continuing her classes remotely since returning to singapore in march last year.
she said: "my singaporean and malaysian peers agree that we often feel like an outsider or a cctv spying on the class via zoom, and this makes class participation painfully awkward and hard for us.
some of us are stressed out, as we find it hard to keep up with the class, especially when technology fails us.
"university of adelaide student shalynn tsai, 21, who is doing her bachelor's degree in dental surgery, had to take leave of absence because she was unable to return to campus by mid-september last year.
"it has been very stressful not knowing when or whether we can even continue with our degree courses," she said.
"with the travel bubble, we can finally go back and resume our studies.
"while the students understand that they may need to undergo pre-departure and arrival tests for the coronavirus, they hoped they would not have to incur hefty charges and would not have to be quarantined if already vaccinated.
mr ryan soh, 21, will be commencing his communication studies at queensland university of technology later this month.
"i hope that there will be no need for a quarantine once vaccination has been done and the covid-19 test comes back negative.
kind of like what's going on between new zealand and australia," he said.
"nevertheless, if there is a need for quarantine, then hopefully it would be more accessible or cheaper for students, as some of us may not be able to afford it.
"mr tan felt the same.
"hopefully it will not be too expensive and there will not be a need to self-quarantine for too long once i arrive at either destination.
i understand the need for the covid-19 tests to ensure there are no imported cases and hope that both countries can maintain the safety of not only its residents but those travelling as well," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: a new chinese law against foreign sanctions is designed to boost beijing's power against international pressure, but could spark compliance dilemmas for foreign businesses operating in the world's second-largest economy.
it comes just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest.
here is what we know about the law so far:what is it?the anti-foreign sanctions law was rushed into force on thursday (jun 10).
it aims to protect chinese individuals or organisations in the event that a country "uses various pretexts or its laws" to take "discriminatory" action against them.
no country is specifically named.
but beijing has accused western nations of "suppressing" china's development, especially the united states.
it has lashed out at "illegal and unreasonable" sanctions over human rights and flagged an urgent need to fight back.
what could it do?countermeasures listed in the law include denying visas, deportation, or seizing assets of those who formulate or comply with sanctions against chinese businesses or officials.
it rules that authorities are not only able to target individuals and groups but can also take aim at their family members.
the law is broad and "significantly increases the punitive power of china's anti-sanctions measures", said university of hong kong associate professor angela zhang.
"the broad scope of this framework means that lots of folks, like scholars, pundits, think tanks, could be sanctioned for supporting sanctions on china," warned julian ku, an expert on international law at hofstra university.
how could it impact business?senior executives of entities on a countermeasure list could also come under pressure, with potential implications for a large number of people and businesses.
"affected businesses could lose entire access to the chinese market, and chinese citizens and institutions will need to cut ties with affected ngos and think tanks," zhang told afp.
the law could also create severe compliance issues for multinational companies.
part of the legislation prohibits those in china from going along with designated foreign sanctions.
it acts in a similar way to a european blocking statute "which nullified the effect of us iran sanctions within the eu", said ku.
this puts foreign businesses in a bind if they cannot legally comply with both us sanctions and chinese prohibitions.
why now?the law builds on earlier measures which prevent companies and individuals from complying with foreign sanctions targeting china.
in an explainer on the national people's congress website, an official said the law was passed in a short period of time because there was "an urgent need to counter the hegemonism and power politics of certain western countries".
the law will help "counteract the containment and suppression" china faces, the official added.
beijing has long complained about us sanctions and trade restrictions affecting chinese companies.
but in recent months biden has stepped up us criticism over intellectual property theft and alleged human rights abuses in hong kong and the northwestern xinjiang region.
how much of a threat is it?ku warned the law had "some reasonable parts, and some troubling parts".
the section allowing for retaliatory sanctions "is unprecedented compared to other countries' sanctions regimes", he said.
foreign companies are regularly caught in the crosshairs of tension between china and western nations, including recent nationalist attacks on fashion brand h&m for voicing concern about forced labour claims in xinjiang.
zhang said she believes chinese authorities will not immediately wield the new powers, given that anxiety among foreign businesses could lead to more decoupling.
"if, however, foreign governments continue to press on with aggressive sanctions, then i believe china will start deploying those anti-sanctions laws to demonstrate their coercive power," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
as of saturday noon (12 jun), the ministry of health (moh) has preliminarily confirmed an additional 21 cases of covid-19 infection in singapore.
this brings the total number of infection cases to 62,266. there are 12 new cases of locally transmitted covid-19 infection.
7 are linked to previous cases, amongst whom 2 have already been placed on quarantine, and 5 were detected through surveillance.
the remaining 5 cases are currently unlinked.
"based on our investigations so far, the cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories," said moh.
in addition, there are nine new imported cases, who had been placed on stay-home notice (shn) upon arrival in singapore.
all 9 are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the ministry will share further updates in its press release tonight.
according to last night's press release, there are currently 133 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
of these, most are stable or improving, and one is in critical condition in the intensive care unit (icu).
279 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
these are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19.
34 have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
the bts x mcdonald's second merch drop is happening soon!to celebrate the ongoing release of the bts meal around the world, bts and mcdonald's are releasing another merch collection.
while their previous merch drop featured the bts x mcd logo on shirts, bags, hats, slippers, socks, and more, the second drop will feature the global superstars' hand-drawn designs.
the new collection arrives on 17 june, 8 am kst/jst (7 am pht/sgt, 16 june, 7 pm est) via the weverse shop.
check out the hand-drawn designs by rm, jin, suga, j-hope, jimin, v, and jungkook here:the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/sbdiykwbmu

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/ta2nyvxcla

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/1gw4xf3469

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/msjcswflin

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/hju4krcpmt

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/ziikegdiy1

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/qyzovowrqethe art the artists 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/ofmrz2votz

check out when the bts meal is coming to your country:26 may malaysia 27 may south korea, vietnam1 june india (delhi)3 june hong kong, macau4 june india (mumbai)9 june indonesia, taiwan18 june philippines (pre-release: 17 june)21 june singapore (originally 27 may)14 july thailandin the meantime, watch bts with their latest single, 'butter':  2011 2021 bandwagon pte ltdor sign in with your bandwagon account
jewel changi airport reopens to the public on jun 14, but passenger terminals remain closed to allow the airport community to adapt to new zoning measures and safety protocols.
singapore: the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) will set aside s$15 million to help airport workers adjust to enhanced safety measures put in place after more than 100 covid-19 cases were linked to the airport last month.
about 5,000 workers will benefit from the s$15 million, which will be used to provide a monthly special allowance and cater meals for workers for six months, as well as defray the cost of personal protective equipment, they said.
last month changi airport became singapore's largest active covid-19 cluster, with more than 100 cases, with caas and cag saying at the time that preliminary investigations suggested that theinitial transmissioncould have occurred through an airport worker who was "assisting a family from south asia".
subsequently changi airport's passenger terminals, as well as entertainment and retail complex jewel, were closed to the public, while additional covid-19 testing was introduced for arrivals from 'very high-risk' countries and regions.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), caas and cag said there have not been any new covid-19 positive cases involving airport workers since may 20.
"of the 43 airport workers who had tested positive, 42 have been discharged and the remaining worker is recovering in a hospital general ward without oxygen supplementation," they said.
they added that they have been working closely with the health ministry and the airport community to "review and strengthen changi airport's defences against the more transmissible covid-19 variants".
enhanced safety measures have been implemented to protect airport workers, travellers and the public, they said.
"cohorting arrangements for airport workers have been tightened through a zonal system to reduce the risk of cross infection," they said.
"in particular, airport workers in the passenger terminal piers, arrival immigration halls and baggage claim halls who have interactions with arriving and transfer passengers and therefore are at higher risk of exposure to the virus, are now required to remain in their work zone throughout their shift, including during their meal and rest times," they said.
these workers are also required to be in "higher levels" of ppe throughout the duration of their shifts, except for meal and rest times.
deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed, while anenhanced segregated zoning systemannounced last month has been implemented, said caas and cag.
"airport workers have been briefed and trained on the new measures and requirements, to allow the new measures and safety protocols to be implemented smoothly," they said, noting there would also be regular reminders, checks and audits on health safety as an "added safeguard".
"the safety of our airport workers remains our top priority.
we are therefore supportive of the tightened measures to ensure they are protected in the course of their work," said national trades union congress deputy secretary-general cham hui fong.
"our unions will continue to work closely with the relevant stakeholders to mitigate any impact on them, and to ensure their wellbeing is taken care of," she added.
jewel to reopen on jun 14jewel, which has been closed to the public since may 13, will reopen on jun 14. changi airport's passenger terminals will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adapt to the new zoning measures, which require "significant operational adjustments", said caas and cag.
more details on the reopening of the passenger terminals will be released at a later date, they said.
since may 23, airport workers in higher risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test (art) between their seven-day polymerase chain reaction-based rostered routine tests.
cag and caas said that since jun 3, it has been testing the use of the traciex breathalyser, which allows workers to blow into a disposable breathalyser fitted with a proprietary sensor chip instead of undergoing an art.
traciex was given provisional authorisation by the health sciences authority on may 27.
"the breathalyser will then be inserted into a portable reading device for vibrational spectroscopy analysis, which will be able to tell if a person is infected with covid-19 within two minutes," said cag and caas.
this will allow workers to receive their results faster than with the current art, they said, adding that workers would also experience less discomfort as the test is non-invasive.
"we aim to progressively replace the art for more airport workers with the traciex breathalyser in the coming months.
this will also allow us to step up the frequency of testing so that we can more quickly detect, isolate and treat any potential covid-19 cases in the airport community," they said.
transport minister s iswaran, who visited changi airport on friday, described the new breathalyser test as a "potential game changer" due to its method of administration.
"we will gradually be scaling up the use of this breathalyser to validate its efficacy, and to be able to then scale up its use for a much wider range of workers," he said, noting workers had told him the new test was a welcome alternative to the more invasive pcr and art tests.
reopening travelwhen asked about comments made by south korean authorities that the country planned to expedite travel bubble plans with singapore, mr iswaran said singapore was "engaging in dialogue with many potential partners".
to allow for cross-border travel, key elements such as mutual recognition of vaccinations and testing protocols need to be in place, he said.
meanwhile the enhanced safety measures allow the airport to adapt more quickly to emerging risks, he said, describing these measures as an important part of singapore's "overall posture towards a calibrated and safe reopening of travel".
"once we have those elements in place then, at the appropriate time, when the ambient conditions are there, we can then activate that plan and mobilise the airlines and other partners to facilitate the kind of cross-border travel that we want to achieve.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    friday, 11 jun 2021
                the meeting between australia's pm scott morrison and singapore leader lee hsien loong on thursday (june 10) was the first in-person meeting between them in more than a year.
the straits times/annsingapore, june 11 (bloomberg): a planned quarantine-free travel corridor between australia and singapore may take months to open because of delays to australia's covid-19 vaccination programme.
the two countries are "putting systems in place that will enable such a bubble to emerge between singapore and australia as it does now occur between australia and new zealand, " australia prime minister scott morrison said at a joint virtual press conference after meeting singapore prime minister lee hsien loong on thursday.
he cautioned that any corridor is still some time away.
such a bubble hinges on vaccination rates, lee told reporters.
"once the majority of the population is vaccinated, it becomes much easier for us to contemplate these openings up, " he said.
that means an operational air-travel corridor could be months away, at least.
only about 5.
5 million out of 26 million australians have had at least one jab, meaning some border restrictions are likely to remain well into next year.
morrison's government has abandoned its original october target to inoculate the population.
singapore and australia are among a handful of asia-pacific countries that have managed to contain the coronavirus and have been reluctant to ease border restrictions.
australia has largely closed its shores to non-citizens and residents since last year, while singapore doesn't allow most short-term visitors to enter, except for those under programs such as a green lane for business travelers.
australia's strategy of eliminating covid-19 cases within the community has come under increasing pressure due to leaks of the virus into the community from hotels used to quarantine australians returning from overseas, triggering localised lockdowns.
melbourne, the second-most populous city with more than five million people, exited a two-week lockdown on friday.
morrison said discussions between the nations have included giving priority to students from singapore to return to australia to complete their studies.
that would be a "first opportunity" for increased travel between the nations, he said.
"when all the preparations are ready, then we can start small with an air-travel bubble to build confidence, " lee said at the media conference.
morrison was on an official visit to the city-state, and is due in the u. k.  to attend the group of seven leaders' summit this weekend.
bloomberg
tags / keywords:
australia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                travel bubble
                                                                ,
                                                                                                takes time
                                                                ,
                                                                                                few months
                                                                ,
                                                                                                at least
                                                                ,
                                                                                                morrison
                                                                ,
                                                                                                lee



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
the covid-19 vaccine task force of the u. s.  centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) stated that it has observed increased cases of heart inflammation in adolescents and younger adults, especially aged 12 to 24, following inoculation with authorized mrna-based covid-19 vaccines from moderna mrna, and pfizer pfe/biontech bntx.
several hundreds of cases of myocarditis and pericarditis, both conditions of heart inflammation, were reported to the u. s.  government's vaers (vaccine adverse event reporting system) following dose 1 of any mrna-based vaccine in the last two months.
please note that vaers is a national early warning system to detect possible safety problems in u. s.  licensed vaccines.
the number of cases increased further after the second dose of these vaccines.
moreover, the cases occurred in higher number of younger patients following dose 2 compared to dose 1.  the cdc stated that similar inflammation cases were not reported following vaccination with j&j's jnj adenovirus-based covid-19 vaccine.
per a reuters report, the israel's health ministry raised the alarm when it reported a likely link of heart inflammation in young men vaccinated with pfizer's bnt162b earlier this month.
following this report, the cdc and health regulators in other countries started investigating such cases.
although the number of reported cases is small compared to total inoculations with mrna vaccines, they were higher than expected in the younger age groups.
we note that the cdc is yet to link these adverse events to mrna vaccines and has scheduled a meeting of the advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) on jun 18 to discuss and assess the heart inflammation reports.
moreover, the government authority has recommended continuation of vaccination for everyone of age 12 or older given the risk of covid-19 illness and related complications.
however, we note that the cdc report also stated that more than 50% of heart inflammation cases were reported in the age group of 12-24 that has received only 8.
8% of vaccine doses.
this suggests that any adverse outcome from the acip meeting scheduled next week can hamper vaccination with mrna vaccines in the adolescent patient group, and hurt prospects of these vaccine developers.
however, the percentage of inflammation cases suggests that the risk from these vaccines is significantly lower than their benefits.
a cdc study claims that these vaccines are 91% effective.
moreover, most patients facing inflammation issues quickly felt better following medication and rest.
we remind investors that pfizer/biontech's covid-19 vaccine received authorization for emergency use in adolescents last month from the fda.
moderna filed for a similar authorization in the united states, europe and canada earlier this month.
meanwhile, pfizer and biontech have pledged two billion doses of their covid-19 vaccines to ensure equitable access to their vaccines globally.
as part of the pledge, the company plans to supply 200 million doses in 2021 and 300 million doses in the first half of 2022 to the u. s.  government at not-for-profit price.
the government will donate these doses to low- and lower middle-income countries and organizations that support them.
while moderna and pfizer carry a zacks rank #3 (hold), biontech sports a zacks rank of 1 (strong buy).
you can see the complete list of today's zacks #1 rank stocks here.
in addition to the stocks you read about above, would you like to see zacks' top picks to capitalize on the internet of things (iot)?
it is one of the fastest-growing technologies in history, with an estimated 77 billion devices to be connected by 2025.  that works out to 127 new devices per second.
zacks has released a special report to help you capitalize on the internet of things's exponential growth.
it reveals 4 under-the-radar stocks that could be some of the most profitable holdings in your portfolio in 2021 and beyond.
click here to download this report free >>want the latest recommendations from zacks investment research?
today, you can download 7 best stocks for the next 30 days.
click to get this free report johnson & johnson (jnj) : free stock analysis report pfizer inc.  (pfe) : free stock analysis report moderna, inc.  (mrna) : free stock analysis report biontech se sponsored adr (bntx) : free stock analysis report to read this article on zacks.
com click here.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
(reuters) mcdonald's was forced to briefly shut some outlets in indonesia earlier this week when the launch of a limited edition meal inspired by k-pop group bts sparked frenzied excitement and fears of coronavirus contagion.
videos shared with reuters showed scenes of chaos on wednesday, with upturned tables and chairs and delivery riders massing inside and outside of restaurants, prompting concerns about super-spreader events in a country with one of asia's most stubborn covid-19 outbreaks.
there have been big bts buildups elsewhere, including the philippines, where a special app has been created and videos have appearing on social media apps like tiktok, of mcdonald's staff in multiple outlets mimicking the boy band's moves.
mcdonald's will release the bts meal next week, comprising nuggets, a soft drink fries and two dipping sauces.
abs-cbn news in the philippines quoted a mcdonald's statement saying preparations were being made for high demand, including reinforcement of safety protocols.
(writing by nur-azna sanusi, angela johnston and martin petty; editing by raissa kasolowsky)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
singapore — a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
muhammad farhan jaffri and his twin brother muhammad fiqkri jaffri, both 26, attacked sergeant chong jiawei, 27, a ground response officer who was on patrol duty on 23 february last year.
the attack left chong unconscious and incapacitated, and he was given 29 days of leave due to his injuries.
farhan, who pleaded guilty to five charges of causing grievous hurt and hurt to a public servant, vandalism, being a member of a secret society and using abusive language on a public servant, was also given three strokes of the cane and fined $3,500.
four charges of a similar nature were considered for his sentencing.
fiqkri's case is still pending before the courts.
he faces seven charges, including causing grievous hurt to a public servant.
on 23 february last year, at about 4am, farhan, who was drunk, was having an argument with his wife at the void deck of block 755 jurong west street 74 when a member of the public called the police over the commotion.
four police officers, including chong, were dispatched to the location, and they saw farhan's wife in tears.
a female police officer was checking on the wife when farhan became defensive.
at this point, fiqkri arrived and approached the officers aggressively, pointing his finger at the officers and demanding to know why they were questioning his brother.
fiqkri asked farhan and his wife to return to his unit and asked the police officers to "shut up".
farhan left but verbally abused the female police officer first.
within minutes, farhan returned and shouted that he did not like the faces of the officers.
his twin asked farhan whose face he did not like and farhan gestured at chong's face.
fiqkri turned to chong and swung his fist at the officer's face.
chong fell to the ground and farhan joined him in assaulting the police officer.
farhan and fiqkri rained punches and kicks on the officer, despite attempts by the other officers to restrain the brothers.
the brothers hurt another male officer, who was on reservist, during the struggle.
their violence prompted the female police officer to draw her baton and call for reinforcement.
they finally managed to handcuff fiqkri.
two other police officers arrived and handcuffed farhan.
after farhan was escorted into the police vehicle, he yelled and knocked his head on the window repeatedly.
he then kicked the window three times, causing the right rear window to shatter.
at that point in time, one officer was standing guard beside the right rear seat of the vehicle.
the damage cost $201.
farhan has since made full restitution.
chong was conveyed to hospital.
his medical report, dated 9 march last year, stated that as a result for the attack, chong slumped to the ground and briefly lost consciousness.
he was diagnosed with abrasions over his eyelid, laceration over his ear, facial bruises, and a concussion.
he was admitted for two days into the neurosurgery ward for monitoring.
due to his traumatic head injury, chong was given 29 days of hospitalisation leave.
the other officer who was injured had bruises and abrasion over his head.
both officers' medical bills were covered by service insurance.
deputy public prosecutor chng luey chi sought a jail term of between 39 months and 4 weeks, and 39 months and 6 weeks, along with three strokes of the cane and a fine of $3,500 against farhan.
citing chong's victim impact statement, dpp chng told the court that the police officer was deployed to an administrative role for a month before returning to a frontline role.
"this was to help the victim build up confidence in the execution of his duties as a frontline officer.
moreover, the incident had caused the victim worries about how his supervisors might perceive his abilities," said dpp chng.
the manner of the attack was "sustained, brutal, and cruel", said dpp chng, who noted that farhan had attacked the officer simply because he "did not like" chong's face.
voluntarily causing grievous hurt to a public servant carries a jail term of up to 15 years, and fine or caning.
causing hurt to a public servant carries a jail term of seven years and fine or caning.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother singapore stories:hsa busts vision empire illegal mask manufacturing facilitysingapore and australia to work towards air travel bubble, with priority on studentssingapore-hk atb review in july, no 'firm plans' for south korea travel bubblecyclist who punched lorry driver along jalan eunos fined $5,600man assaulted private hire car driver in road rage incidentchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed betager med flot design, imponerende udstyr og stor power.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilpresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
this is the moment a gang mowed down a man twice in a brutal attack.
gang leader david 'porky' clark, 36, was driving a mercedes when he and his crew deliberately tried to run over the victim in ridley street, southwick, sunderland.
as the man tried to flee in a silver hatchback, clark and the driver of a volvo rammed the car and smashed into another parked vehicle.
he was hit twice by the cars and his vehicle rammed a further three times in the shocking attack on april 5, 2020. watch: moment gang repeatedly ran over man in brutal attackmoments later, clark – aided by shaun hewitt, shaun mcgregor and leigh coulson disarmed luke owen, who possessed a machete.
owen was then stabbed with the machete in the middle of the street, leaving him with serious leg injuries and cuts to his face.
earlier on the same evening, clark's girlfriend coulson threatened an occupant on the same street as the attack.
she told the victim he would be "burnt to a crisp" and said a car would be driven through his living room.
a vehicle was reversed into the front door of the address and set on fire later that night.
all five gang members, from sunderland, admitted a string of offences at newcastle crown court in february.
on friday ringleader clark was jailed for 44 months after he admitted assault, dangerous driving and violent disorder.
coulson, 33, pleaded guilty to violent disorder and threats to commit criminal damage by fire and received a 12-month suspended sentence.
hewitt, 29, mcgregor, 32, and owen, 34, all admitted violent disorder and owen also pleaded guilty to possession of an offensive weapon.
hewitt was jailed for one year, mcgregor was jailed for 15 months and owen received an 11-month sentence suspended for 12 months.
detective inspector andy richardson, of northumbria police, said: "the violence that we saw on the streets of southwick that night was appalling and all five defendants should be ashamed of themselves.
"the series of incidents unfolded in a residential area where families watched on in shock – and they will no doubt have been horrified to see this level of offending justyards from their front door.
"clark was at the centre of the disorder and is somebody who has consistently shown a total disregard for the law.
"i am pleased that he is now behind bars and the severity of his crimes reflected in his sentence.
"we will not tolerate violence in our communities and hope this outcome offers reassurance to our communities.
"we are committed to continue tackling serious and organised criminality.
"china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
climate impact x is a welcome addition to the country's climate action initiatives that provide new economic opportunities, help price discovery and can aid future compliance, say energy researchers.
singapore: singapore took another big step in advancing the green agenda last month.
the country on may 20 announced plans to position itself as a hub for carbon services.
climate impact x (cix) is a joint venture between the development bank of singapore, singapore exchange, standard chartered bank and temasek holdings.
first envisioned by the emerging stronger taskforce's alliance for action on sustainability, cix will provide a marketplace for trading carbon credits commencing in late 2021. singapore is well-suited to hosting a carbon marketplace.
it is an ideal base for multinational companies working on projects that generate emission credits across the region.
as a regional leader for commodities trading, singapore also deals with many energy majors and traders who will form a large part of the clientele for carbon market ancillary services.
there are already around 30 firms here offering carbon consulting services, which include low-carbon project development, consulting and verification for the registration of certified emissions-reduction credits, carbon footprint measurement, project financing and legal services.
the launch of a carbon marketplace can attract more of such consultancies in a key growth industry.
(what will cix bring to the table of carbon trading and climate action?
find out on the climate conversations.
)a welcome addition to singapore's climate action initiativescix is a welcome addition to the suite of emission-cutting initiatives and institutions in singapore that helps the country accelerate its peak and net-zero emissions timelines.
under the paris agreement, singapore'snationally determined contributionis to peak emissions at 65 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent around 2030.  singapore also seeks to halve peak emissions to 33 million tonnes by 2050 and achieve net zero emissions as soon as viable during the second half of the century.
a key innovation of cix includes provisions for trading nature-based solutions.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
nature-based climate solutions like mangroves, wetlands and forests can absorb vast amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
a recent study by researchers at the nus centre for nature-based climate solutions estimates reforestation in southeast asia can contribute to 3.
4 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions reductions per year.
reforestation, coupled with supply chain transparency and harmonised standards for carbon offsets, can translate into a ready source of carbon credits.
as an exchange focused on such carbon credits, cix will enhance the climate finance ecosystem within singapore and expand the range of mechanisms for firms to manage and price their carbon externalities.
google, microsoft and amazon are said to be in talks to use cix in their journey to become net-zero emitters.
moreover, it offers another way for singapore to widen the international scope of its environmental management activities.
the right price for carboncix can aid with the adjustment of singapore's carbon tax – which came into effect in january 2019 – by expanding the array of tools used for pricing carbon in singapore.
this will permit the singapore government some freedom when discussing future, probably upward revision to the current tax, since local firms will have the ability to defray their "carbon costs" in other ways.
the current tax rate of s$5 per tonne of co2 can be contested for three reasons.
first, the abatement costs are typically considered much higher, and ideally, carbon price would reflect the cost of abatement.
a world bank report published in may notes that a price of us$40 to us$80 (s$50 to s$100) per tonne of co2 is needed to meet the 2 degrees celsius goal.
second, the s$5 price tag might not fully capture carbon embedded in international supply chains and trade.
this has spurred debate around the need for carbon border adjustment mechanisms – a tool for ensuring that domestic and imported goods price their embodied emissions equally, thereby discouraging trade with high-polluting countries that do not have effective carbon pricing mechanisms of their own.
third, singapore's carbon pricing is arguably not a sufficiently liquid mechanism because it changes infrequently.
the government has plans to increase the tax rate to between s$10 and s$15 per tonne by 2030.  the tax level and trajectory post-2023 will be reviewed by 2022, in consultation with industry and expert groups in order to give businesses and opportunity to adjust to changes.
there is wisdom in introducing market-based mechanisms to facilitate the price discovery process and allow emissions to be priced into commercial decisions.
in the absence of such a mechanism, finding the right price for carbon is complex.
it requires striking a balance between reducing the carbon footprint of industries and increasing the costs of doing business, which may negatively impact the competitiveness of singapore's economy.
however, with the pandemic still evolving, the success of singapore's carbon services hub should not be assumed.
increased and quantifiable demand for carbon offsets also suggest an upward trend in emissions-intensive activities in the near term.
getting companies to play ballthe cix is also a first step to getting companies to play ball on singapore's climate obligations.
demand for carbon offsets could arise from several sources.
companies currently paying carbon taxes may purchase credits to defray their carbon tax liability.
similarly, firms or other speculators may purchase credits to trade later for a premium, should this be allowed under the carbon pricing act.
retail trade from individuals seeking socially responsible investment options can also be expected.
yet singapore must not forget there are no industry-level mandatory reduction targets.
many carbon commitments by corporations in the region are currently voluntary, which may limit market participation.
regulation can steward strong market participation.
with rapid global expansion of climate finance, compliance concerns have also grown because of "greenwash" – when companies over-inflate the environmental credentials of their projects.
the devil is in the details.
regulators must provide robust mechanisms for project verification, monitoring and compliance enforcement not only to prevent greenwash, but also to ensure fair benchmarking across all projects.
this could be industry initiated, where carbon credit and offset suppliers commit to co-develop and implement greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodologies for their respective sectors.
regulators will then be able to assess the methodologies that improve transparency in carbon credit transactions.
having recognised the complexity of scaling up global carbon markets, the global institute on finance's taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets has launched a consultation on creating "high-integrity" markets, due to end in late june.
it seeks to establish "a threshold standard for high-quality credits, clear legal standards and uniting existing, fragmented carbon credit markets in one impactful, well-run system".
to ensure the integrity and quality of its credits, cix will work with global partners including the taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets and the natural climate solutions alliance.
it will also use cutting-edge data analytics, such as satellite monitoring, machine learning and blockchain technology to ensure the environmental integrity of credits traded on cix.
global rating agencies might be roped in to provide independent environmental ratings for nature-based projects which will issue carbon credits.
it is important singapore provides a well-run and trusted market for carbon offsets while expanding emissions-reduction efforts.
however, to meet its own national targets, companies must ultimately commit to less carbon-intensive production models and not simply "pay to play" by exploiting offsets.
melissa low is research fellow at the energy studies institute, national university of singapore.
david broadstock is senior research fellow and lead energy economist at the same institute.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                        the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
representational image
                        the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
with the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155.  the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.
the number of active cases further declined to 10,80,690 accounting for 3.
68 percent of the total infections, while the national covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.
07 per cent.
india's active caseload declined to less than 11 lakh after 63 days while 84,332 new cases reported in 24 hours are the lowest in 70 days, the ministry said.
also, 20,44,131 coronavirus tests were conducted on friday taking the total number to 37,42,42,384. the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.
39 percent.
it has been less than 10 per cent for the 19th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 4.
94 per cent.
recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 30th consecutive day.
the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,79,11,384, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.
25 percent, the data stated.
other highlights- seven-day moving average of new cases below 1 lakh after 66 days- tamil nadu reports 15.
76k new cases, kerala 14.
23k, maharashtra 11.
76k- maharashtra reports 2619 new deaths, tamil nadu 378, karnataka 159- five states/uts report rise in active cases: maharashtra, bihar, west bengal, arunachal pradesh, a&n islands- difference between new cases reported in the last 7 days and the preceding 7 days is -32percent (world average is -14 percent)- 34.
34 lakh new vaccinations.
24.
96 crore total.
31.
08 lakh received their first dose yesterday, 3.
26 lakh second dose- 19.
20 lakh new tests.
test positivity rate: 4.
39 percent (4.
49 percent the previous day)- test positivity rate below 5 percent for the 5th day- test positivity rate: kerala 13.
45 percent, sikkim 12.
64 percent, goa 12.
52 percent.
uttar pradesh 0.
20 percent, delhi 0.
41 percent, madhya pradesh 0.
55 percent- active cases in india now less than in brazil
                updated date:
                
                    june 12, 2021 12:11:07 ist
                

                        tags:
                    
                coronavirus updates: maharashtra also reported less than 20,000 covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive on saturday
            
                coronavirus live news updates: the cm also reviewed the status of paediatric icus, which are being set up at various government hospitals, and functioning of 13 oxygen plants in the state
            
                coronavirus news updates: the tally of covid-19 cases in mumbai rose to 7,15,146, while the toll reached 15,146. 









            sign up for a weekly curated briefing of the most important strategic affairs stories from across the world.
firstpostsectionplustoolsappsnetwork18 sites copyright © 2021.  firstpost all rights reserved.
novak djokovic compared defeating rafael nadal at the french open to scaling mount everest as he hailed friday's epic semi-final triumph over the 13-time champion as "one of my greatest victories".
djokovic condemned nadal to only his third loss in 16 years and 108 matches at roland garros to reach his sixth paris final after a classic showdown which even beat the country's covid-19 curfew.
in their 58th career clash, djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
djokovic, the 2016 champion in paris who had also beaten nadal in the 2015 quarter-finals, will face stefanos tsitsipas in sunday's final in what will be his 29th championship match at the slams.
tsitsipas had earlier become the first greek to reach a grand slam final with a 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 4-6, 6-3 victory over germany's alexander zverev.
defending champion nadal, 35, who would have been the oldest finalist at the french open in the modern era, remains tied on 20 majors with roger federer.
"it was a privilege to face rafa in such an incredible match," said djokovic after four hours and 11 minutes of intense action.
"tonight it was my greatest ever match in paris.
"it was his second win in nine meetings at roland garros with nadal, a sequence which also included devastating losses in the 2012, 2014 and 2020 finals.
"definitely one of the top three matches that i ever played in my entire career," said djokovic.
"considering the quality of tennis, playing my biggest rival on the court where he has had so much success and has been the dominant force in the last 15-plus years, and the atmosphere which was completely electric.
just amazing.
"it was nadal's first defeat in 14 semi-finals in the french capital.
"probably it was not my best day today, even if i fought," said nadal.
"sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.
i had a big chance.
there were some crazy points but there was fatigue there.
"djokovic finished with 50 winners; nadal committed 55 unforced errors under a relentless assault.
"it's hard to find words bigger than all the superlatives you can think of for rafa's achievements in roland garros," added 34-year-old djokovic who now leads their series 30-28.
"each time you step on the court with him, you know that you have to kind of climb mount everest to win against this guy here.
"nadal bemoaned the humid conditions which became heavier and slower as the evening progressed.
"we had been playing with very warm and high bounces.
during the night the situation goes a little bit the other way," he said.
"so the bounce is a little less.
the ball gets less top-spin.
that's more favourable for him.
"djokovic had two break points in the opening game of the first set which stretched to 10 minutes but was unable to convert.
curfew-buster -nadal made him pay, sprinting away for a 5-0 lead before the top seed got on the board.
djokovic clung on, retrieving one break to get to 2-5 but nadal eventually prevailed after one hour on court even if he required seven set points to edge ahead.
as a sign of the tension of the occasion, nadal complained to chair umpire eva asderaki-moore that he needed more time to collect his towel.
djokovic aired his bemusement at the amount of clay on the baselines.
the old rivals exchanged breaks in the second and third games of a big-hitting second set but it was djokovic who repeated the feat for a 4-2 lead before levelling the tie.
twice in the third set djokovic edged ahead, only to be reeled back in by nadal who broke back in the 10th game as the world number one served for the set.
djokovic then had to save a set point with an ice-cool drop shot in the 12th game.
"you cannot play better clay court tennis than this.
it's perfect," tweeted an admiring andy murray, the former world number one who lost the 2016 final to djokovic.
the 92-minute third set ended with djokovic taking the tiebreak.
in a further twist on a dramatic evening, the 5,000 spectators inside court philippe chatrier were allowed to watch the conclusion of the match despite it passing the 11pm covid-19 curfew.
"in agreement with the national authorities, the match will come to an end in your presence," said a stadium announcer told delighted fans.
nadal broke in the first game of the fourth set but djokovic levelled for 2-2 and broke again for 4-2. he finished it off on a second match point when nadal hit wide and long.
dj/jcchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilpresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new delhi (reuters) india on saturday (june 12) cut taxes on medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators and drugs used to treat covid-19 infections, after widespread criticism over healthcare costs during a devastating second wave of the virus in april and may.
the government cut taxes on medical grade oxygen, ventilators, the remdesivir antiviral drug, diagnostic kits, pulse oximeters and hand sanitisers to 5 per cent from 12-18 per cent with immediate effect.
the new levies will be in place until the end of september, finance minister nirmala sitharaman said, adding it would include taxes on electric furnaces in crematoriums and ambulances.
"the rate cut has not be done with any cost implication (on government finances) in mind, it has been done so that people get some ease.
.
.
.
the decision has been taken to provide ultimate ease to patients," revenue secretary tarun bajaj told a news conference.
the government, however, would continue to tax vaccines at 5 per cent, he added.
the world's second-most populous country, where coronavirus cases hit a peak of 400,000 a day in may, reported 84,332 new infections on saturday, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
there were 4,002 deaths.
the south asian country's total covid-19 cases stands at 29.
4 million, with 367,081 fatalities.
during the second wave of the virus many people resorted to costly private treatment in what is still a low-income country.
others paid twenty times the usual price for oxygen cylinders on the black market and huge sums to secure ambulances and hearses.
experts have said millions of people remain vulnerable to new surges of infections, particularly in the countryside where two-thirds of the population lives.
prime minister narendra modi has said the government would take over the inoculation programme from indian states and offer free doses to everyone over the age of 18. the government would allow private hospitals to have 25 per cent of all vaccine supplies, but not to charge more than 150 rupees (s$2.
72) over the cost of the dose, he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
rio de janeiro:     nearly two thirds of brazilians oppose the country hosting the upcoming copa america soccer tournament, a poll showed on friday, amid concerns over the country's dire covid-19 outbreak.
the south american football confederation last week unexpectedly relocated the tournament, which kicks off on sunday, with brazilian president jair bolsonaro's backing.
brazil stepped up after co-hosts colombia were dropped because of civil unrest and argentina withdrew after a surge in coronavirus infections.
bolsonaro has played down the severity of the pandemic and fought against lockdowns to control an outbreak that has killed more than 480,000 brazilians.
public health experts, supreme court justices and footballers questioned the wisdom of hosting the tournament with a pandemic raging, while high-profile sponsors have pulled out.
according to an xp/ipespe poll, 64per cent of respondents were against hosting the cup, while 29per cent were in favor.
among bolsonaro's critics, 83per cent were against the tournament in brazil, while 35per cent of his supporters also did not support the competition.
ahead of next year's elections, former leftist president luiz inacio lula da silva appears to be strengthening his lead over bolsonaro, the poll showed.
although neither men have announced their candidacy, the 2022 election is widely expected to be a run-off between the two polarizing figures.
in the first round vote, lula saw his share rise to 32per cent, up three percentage points from a may poll.
bolsonaro's first-round support slipped one percentage point to 28per cent.
in a simulated second-round matchup, lula's support rose to 45per cent from 42per cent in the previous survey, while bolsonaro's fell to 36per cent from 40per cent.
the poll was based on 1,000 interviews, conducted from june 7-10, with a margin of error of 3.
2 percentage points.
(reporting by gabriel stargardter; additional reporting by jamie mcgeever; editing by brad haynes and nick macfie)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                medicinal personnel wait before taking the moderna vaccination against the covid-19 coronavirus at taipei tzu chi hospital in new taipei city on june 9, 2021.  afp
tags / keywords:
taiwan
                                                                ,
                                                                                                several
                                                                ,
                                                                                                people
                                                                ,
                                                                                                scholar
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sueing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tsai
                                                                ,
                                                                                                for
                                                                ,
                                                                                                misusing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19 issue



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a wider range of sports activities will be allowed in the coming weeks when singapore enters phase three (heightened alert) on monday (june 14).
selected organised outdoor programmes with a cap of five people up from two may resume, while from june 21, sport competitions and tournaments without spectators will be given the green light as long as they do not exceed 50 persons in each facility.
these were among the latest updates in sport singapore's (sportsg) advisory issued on friday.
the rules for outdoor training for youth and children aged 18 and under will be eased progressively.
for the first week, low- and high-intensity activities will be kept to a maximum of five.
from june 21, this will increase to 30 with multiple groups of five.
for adults, the five-person cap for high-intensity activities will be relaxed from june 21 as well.
swimfast aquatic group founder david lim welcomed the changes.
his academy has been operating at 20 per cent for the past month during the heightened measures for phase 2. high-intensity outdoor activities such as swimming, where masks have to be removed, were restricted to two people and no multiple groups of two are allowed.
this includes the coach or instructor.
as such, lim had to suspend the academy's learn-to-swim sessions since the start of the current heightened phase began on may 16 and continued only his competitive swimming sessions.
he said: "it's a relief, we can legitimately carry on the classes.
now, we're only doing competitive swimming, so it's no different.
we're just like a pool operator.
swimmers book a lane and swim by themselves.
"now we don't have to juggle such small numbers.
we can carry out lessons with four swimmers to one coach.
that ratio is a huge difference to us because when it's one-to-one, we're definitely losing money.
"the multi-ministry task force on thursday had indicated that mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
national agency sportsg's latest update permitting sports competitions as long as different sessions are adequately separated within a day or across multiple days to avoid congregation was welcomed by organisers like lld sports development and management founder lyn yeo.
her company is hoping to get approval for the cartimes singapore junior development tour championship.
the golf event at laguna national was postponed from its original may 31-june 2 date.
she said: "june is typically the busiest tournament season for junior golfers and we are hoping with great excitement that we are able to resume.
"some measures that organisers plan to have in place include temperature screening and safe entry protocols, as well as restricting each flight to two buggies, which have been installed with a full partition.
players and officials will also be required to wear masks throughout their rounds.
for gyms and fitness studios, many of whom are closed due to current restrictions, they will be allowed to restart operations from june 21. staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing, which is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities.
this will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
sportsg also announced that the occupancy limit for sport and recreational facilities will be increased to one person per 10 sq m from one person per 16 sq m, capped at 50 people.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
a bodyguard in president tsai ing-wen's entourage tried to bring in 9,800 cigarette cartons as he returned from an official trip accompanying tsai to the caribbean.
the president said at the time that she had no idea her security team was involved and ordered an investigation.
the agent, identified as wu tsung-hsien of the national security bureau, received the heaviest sentence of 10 years and four months on corruption and tax evasion charges, according to taipei district court.
wu tried to pass the cigarettes off as cargo from tsai's presidential plane in an effort to smuggle them past customs, authorities said.
it was later discovered that the scam was not a one-off when china airlines released figures showing huge amounts of duty-free cigarettes were routinely purchased during presidential visits.
the defendants "deprived the government of tax revenue, and seriously damaged the nation's image", judge huang pei-chen told a virtual press conference.
the value of duty evaded on the cigarettes amounted to nearly tw$8.
2 million ($273,000), according to the court.
wu's colleague and main accomplice chang heng-chia was sentenced to 10 years and two months while six other ex-agents received jail terms ranging from six years and two months to seven years.
four airline employees implicated in the scandal were handed prison terms ranging from two years to five years and four months.
they can appeal the ruling.
the bureau's internal investigation found that most agents bought a few dozen cartons of cigarettes into the island on the trip -- the majority ordering between 11 and 50 cartons.
around 100 others involved in presidential security who have bought cigarettes into taiwan reached deferred prosecution agreements in 2019 and last year.
taiwan's customs law limits travellers to a maximum of five cartons of cigarettes -- and only one can be tax-free.
aw/axnchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
india covid-19 updates: india registered the lowest number of covid cases in 71 days (file)india, witnessing a downward trend in covid cases, reported the lowest daily spike in infections since april 2 with 80,834 new cases in the last 24 hours.
india has so far logged over 2.
93 crore cases of coronavirus.
over 1.
32 lakh people recovered from the deadly disease in the last 24 hours.
india's test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to be on the decline.
for the sixth straight day, the positivity rate remained below the 5 per cent-mark at 4.
25 per cent.
track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
singapore: workers in the security, landscape, and lift and escalator sectors may soon see their salaries increase further under the progressive wage model, with tripartite partners "confident" they can conclude negotiations in the next few months, said manpower minister tan see leng.
at a media briefing about the progressive wage model on thursday (jun 10), mr tan said recommendations for the three sectors were currently in the pipeline and that newly-formedtripartite clusters for food services, retail, andwaste managementwere also making headway.
"the (tripartite workgroup on lower-wage workers) is looking at ways to cover the various occupational groups under progressive wages, and this will benefit low wage workers employed in similar occupations but distributed across the various sectors," he said, adding that the workgroup will share more on the plans soon.
the update comes a day after the government accepted proposals by the tripartite cluster for cleaners (tcc)to increase the wages of cleanerseach year over six years from 2023, under the progressive wage model.
it was the first wage review since the workgroup was launched in october last year to look into the salaries of low-wage workers and to improve their well-being.
senior minister of state for manpower zaqy mohamad, who chairs the workgroup, said the timeline for the roll-out of the wage increases will give employers time to adapt.
"they have many contract obligations that typically run two to three years, so you must also be fair with the industry to adapt because they have committed salaries for existing contracts," he said.
"the six-year schedule also provides service buyers and providers with clarity on wage cost increases so that they can plan for the long term, and cleaning firms are also able to now price in wage increases in the next multi-year contracts that they have with the service buyers," he added.
he gave assurance that cleaners' wages will continue to grow from now to 2023, under an existing agreement that stipulates annual increments of 3 per cent each year.
during the briefing, national trades union congress (ntuc) secretary-general ng chee meng explained the challenges behind implementing the progressive wage model for various sectors.
"this is a very difficult journey .
.
.
it's not so easy as a blanket policy (dictating) that these are the wages, but it gives the ecosystem a runway that is sustainable that would benefit and create a win-win (situation) for both workers and employers," he said.
when asked why it takes a long time for the model to be implemented, mr ng said the model is a more "involved" process that may take a bit more time.
"if you set (wages) too high .
.
.
workers may well be made redundant, loss of jobs, because businesses cannot carry that cost, they will exit, or even if they don't exit, workers may lose their jobs," he added.
"if you set it too low, then it becomes actually a wage ceiling for workers.
if my real productivity deserves s$20, s$25 an hour and we got it quite wrong, as in many other practices of minimum wage when it's set too low, then actually, it becomes a wage ceiling.
this (is) what i mentioned .
.
.
as potential downsides of (a) minimum wage.
"responding to a question about how the wage increases which only apply to singaporeans and permanent residents might push more employers to hire foreigners to lower manpower costs, mr tan said existing measures such as employment quota and qualifying salary requirements are in place.
"so, there will be more initiatives that you can see that would look very .
.
.
comprehensively at this foreign versus local talent and workforce complementarity," added the manpower minister.
pwm vs minimum wagecurrently, the progressive wage model is mandatory for the cleaning, security and landscape industries.
it was designed to raise the salaries of lower-wage workers by upgrading their skills and increasing their productivity.
there have been numerous debates on the merits and effectiveness of the progressive wage model compared with a minimum wage system.
during the briefing, mr zaqy compared singapore's progressive wage model to the minimum wage system implemented in other countries, such as the us and uk.
he said the progressive wage model has brought about sustained wage increases in singapore over almost a decade.
in contrast, the federal minimum wage system implemented in the us has been stuck at us$7.
25 per hour since 2009 due to "political wrangling", he said.
he added that while the uk has increased its minimum wage, the country has also seen a significant increase in zero-hour contracts, where employers are not obliged to provide any minimum working hours and workers do not have to accept any work offered.
"the government is not against minimum wage.
in fact, we have taken some parts of this in our social innovation because we take the best of breed from what we see out there," he said.
"so you see that the bottom rungs of our (progressive wage model) have some elements of minimum wage but we didn't stop there, we created ladders to create career progression.
"businesses, consumers must do their partas the progressive wage model expands to cover more sectors, businesses must continue to transform through automation and job redesign to help uplift the wages of their workers, said dr robert yap, president of the singapore national employers federation (snef).
he added that workers will also have to upskill to stay relevant and ensure career progression.
mr zaqy added that the government will continue to help bear some of the cost increases through salary top-ups such as the workfare income supplement scheme.
this is to ensure that the impact of the cost increases is not solely borne by businesses or consumers.
society must be prepared to do its part too, he said.
"this is really about addressing social inequality .
.
.
as an advanced country and mature country like singapore, this is where we need to take our society forward," he said.
"for us to say .
.
.
we want to care for low-wage workers but not pay them a decent salary, not support them as a society, that cannot stand for too long," he added.
"this is where society needs to extend its support for low wage workers.
we may have to expect to pay a bit more, but i think if we know, deep in our heart that it supports, encourages and it's giving recognition to our low wage workers, our essential workers, for the work that they do.
it is something that we must be prepared to support as a society.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: while racism exists, singapore has made "tremendous progress" in racial harmony over the years, said law and home affairs minister k shanmugam on thursday (jun 10) in an interview with cna938.
his comments follow recent incidents of alleged racism in public.
last week, a viral video emerged showing aman making racist remarkstowards an interracial couple at orchard road.
in another incident last month,a 55-year-old woman was allegedly kickedand subjected to racial slurs by a 30-year-old man while she was brisk walking.
when asked during the interview if singapore's racial harmony is on a knife-edge, mr shanmugam said: "i've always said there is racism in singapore, but we are a better society than most other multi-racial societies that i know of.
"i mean, name me a society where there is no racism, which is multi-racial?
i've felt that we have made tremendous progress.
"he added: "most people accept the norms of a multiracial society and we are making progress.
the direction was positive and direction has been positive.
"mr shanmugam had said last week following the incident at orchard road that he is "not so sure anymore" that singapore is "moving in the right direction" on racial tolerance.
"it's the direction that i'm concerned about," he added on thursday.
"but as of today, i won't say we are at knife-edge.
i think that will be over-dramatising it.
"mr shanmugam also said that people should call out racism and do it sensibly.
"when it's in the public square, i think you should call out, you should frown against it and you should take action where it breaches the law, because it is cancerous, it's divisive and it undermines the values of our society," he added.
on how the law deals with such incidents, mr shanmugam said there is a "fairly strict framework" in singapore, but the country has to go beyond that to maintain racial harmony.
"legal framework is one part of it, but the government and society have to work very hard to maintain harmony.
you can't bring about harmony and racial tolerance and acceptance just by having laws and enforcing them, you need to do much more," he said.
"the laws give the framework, the foundation, they are important, but you got to go beyond that.
and the answer is not every time something happens, you charge," he added.
"when it is serious, investigations are conducted, then the attorney general decides sometimes a warning, sometimes people are charged.
but you are careful in the way you exercise that power.
"although the government plays "an extremely important role" in safeguarding racial and religious harmony, singaporeans have a part to play as well, mr shanmugam said.
"it's not a subtraction from singaporeans to say, 'i'm an indian', 'i'm a chinese', 'i'm a malay', or sub-identities.
those are extremely important.
they give us our cultural ballast," he said.
"but beyond that, we are also singaporeans, and that is a common identity.
we have to emphasise that common identity, even as we recognise, accept, emphasise our individual identities.
we need to have that common vision to say, look, we want to build a system based on justice, equality, meritocracy, and where everyone can feel equal, and everyone can feel protected," he added.
"the government has a huge role in articulating that vision and being fair.
"need for deeper engagementin a facebook post earlier on thursday,president halimah yacob said that while singapore's primary recourse has been the law and that those found guilty have been "rightly punished", this will not stop hate and chauvinism from perpetuating.
"it is agonising to read about the incidents of hatred and chauvinism perpetrated by singaporeans against each other.
such displays are so hurtful because we thought that we had done so much to protect our cohesion until we are shaken from our belief," she said.
"our greatest fear is how such prejudice will affect our young and influence their minds.
we wonder whether these are one-off incidents or reflective of a larger problem.
"mdm halimah called for deeper engagements about why cohesion is important and what it means to be a truly multiracial and multi-religious society.
"we need this, as arguments such as the social media and the current pandemic as contributing factors, may mask the real issues," she said.
"in the meantime, let us start by being kinder to each other.
we can control how we want to respond and do so in a constructive and meaningful way.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
tokyo there is "no change" in japan's position towards taiwan, top government spokesman katsunobu kato said on friday (june 11), two days after prime minister yoshihide suga stoked china's fury by calling taiwan a "country".
mr kato told reporters that "there is no change in japan's basic position of maintaining a non-governmental, practical relationship with taiwan", in line with the 1972 japan-china communique.
in what seems like an accidental slip-up, mr suga said at a nationally televised diet debate on wednesday that australia, new zealand and taiwan are "three countries that have imposed strong curbs on individual rights" amid the covid-19 crisis.
the reference of taiwan as a country (kuni or koku) goes against diplomatic tradition of referring to the island, which beijing regards as a renegade breakaway province, as a region (chi-iki).
beijing has lodged stern representations with tokyo.
on thursday, chinese foreign minister spokesman wang wenbin deplored japan for violating the spirit of the 1972 joint declaration issued when the two countries formalised relations.
according to the communique, japan recognises the people's republic of china government in beijing as the "sole legal" government of china.
it also "fully understands and respects" that taiwan is an "inalienable part" of chinese territory.
mr wang said that mr suga's statement not only "broke japan's solemn promise not to regard taiwan as a country", but also threatened to undermine the diplomatic foundation of sino-japan ties.
these sensitivities come as taiwan has become a political flashpoint amid chinese muscle-flexing in regional waters.
fears are also rising among democratic nations of an expansion in communist influence, with the clampdown on freedoms in hong kong and china's vaccine diplomacy that is said to come with terms attached.
leaders of the group of seven (g-7) advanced economies, including mr suga, who are meeting in britain this weekend, will likely write the taiwan strait into their communique, japanese media have reported.
they will also pledge to donate one billion doses of vaccines to developing countries.
the first mention of taiwan in a joint united states-japan summit statement since 1969 came in april, when us president joe biden and mr suga cited the "importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait".
japan has followed up with similar language in statements with the european union and this week, at a meeting with australian foreign and defence ministers.
this month, japan donated 1.
24 million doses of astrazeneca vaccine to taiwan amid a surge in covid-19 infections there, in a move that china has lambasted as "political theatre".
separately on friday, japan's diet passed a resolution to urge the world health organisation to include taiwan at its general meetings.
foreign minister toshimitsu motegi said the "region's" experience in its covid-19 fight makes its input invaluable to the global community.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
jewel changi airport reopens to the public on jun 14, but passenger terminals remain closed to allow the airport community to adapt to new zoning measures and safety protocols.
singapore: the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) will set aside s$15 million to help airport workers adjust to enhanced safety measures put in place after more than 100 covid-19 cases were linked to the airport last month.
about 5,000 workers will benefit from the s$15 million, which will be used to provide a monthly special allowance and cater meals for workers for six months, as well as defray the cost of personal protective equipment, they said.
last month changi airport became singapore's largest active covid-19 cluster, with more than 100 cases, with caas and cag saying at the time that preliminary investigations suggested that theinitial transmissioncould have occurred through an airport worker who was "assisting a family from south asia".
subsequently changi airport's passenger terminals, as well as entertainment and retail complex jewel, were closed to the public, while additional covid-19 testing was introduced for arrivals from 'very high-risk' countries and regions.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), caas and cag said there have not been any new covid-19 positive cases involving airport workers since may 20.
"of the 43 airport workers who had tested positive, 42 have been discharged and the remaining worker is recovering in a hospital general ward without oxygen supplementation," they said.
they added that they have been working closely with the health ministry and the airport community to "review and strengthen changi airport's defences against the more transmissible covid-19 variants".
enhanced safety measures have been implemented to protect airport workers, travellers and the public, they said.
"cohorting arrangements for airport workers have been tightened through a zonal system to reduce the risk of cross infection," they said.
"in particular, airport workers in the passenger terminal piers, arrival immigration halls and baggage claim halls who have interactions with arriving and transfer passengers and therefore are at higher risk of exposure to the virus, are now required to remain in their work zone throughout their shift, including during their meal and rest times," they said.
these workers are also required to be in "higher levels" of ppe throughout the duration of their shifts, except for meal and rest times.
deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed, while anenhanced segregated zoning systemannounced last month has been implemented, said caas and cag.
"airport workers have been briefed and trained on the new measures and requirements, to allow the new measures and safety protocols to be implemented smoothly," they said, noting there would also be regular reminders, checks and audits on health safety as an "added safeguard".
"the safety of our airport workers remains our top priority.
we are therefore supportive of the tightened measures to ensure they are protected in the course of their work," said national trades union congress deputy secretary-general cham hui fong.
"our unions will continue to work closely with the relevant stakeholders to mitigate any impact on them, and to ensure their wellbeing is taken care of," she added.
jewel to reopen on jun 14jewel, which has been closed to the public since may 13, will reopen on jun 14. changi airport's passenger terminals will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adapt to the new zoning measures, which require "significant operational adjustments", said caas and cag.
more details on the reopening of the passenger terminals will be released at a later date, they said.
since may 23, airport workers in higher risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test (art) between their seven-day polymerase chain reaction-based rostered routine tests.
cag and caas said that since jun 3, it has been testing the use of the traciex breathalyser, which allows workers to blow into a disposable breathalyser fitted with a proprietary sensor chip instead of undergoing an art.
traciex was given provisional authorisation by the health sciences authority on may 27.
"the breathalyser will then be inserted into a portable reading device for vibrational spectroscopy analysis, which will be able to tell if a person is infected with covid-19 within two minutes," said cag and caas.
this will allow workers to receive their results faster than with the current art, they said, adding that workers would also experience less discomfort as the test is non-invasive.
"we aim to progressively replace the art for more airport workers with the traciex breathalyser in the coming months.
this will also allow us to step up the frequency of testing so that we can more quickly detect, isolate and treat any potential covid-19 cases in the airport community," they said.
transport minister s iswaran, who visited changi airport on friday, described the new breathalyser test as a "potential game changer" due to its method of administration.
"we will gradually be scaling up the use of this breathalyser to validate its efficacy, and to be able to then scale up its use for a much wider range of workers," he said, noting workers had told him the new test was a welcome alternative to the more invasive pcr and art tests.
reopening travelwhen asked about comments made by south korean authorities that the country planned to expedite travel bubble plans with singapore, mr iswaran said singapore was "engaging in dialogue with many potential partners".
to allow for cross-border travel, key elements such as mutual recognition of vaccinations and testing protocols need to be in place, he said.
meanwhile the enhanced safety measures allow the airport to adapt more quickly to emerging risks, he said, describing these measures as an important part of singapore's "overall posture towards a calibrated and safe reopening of travel".
"once we have those elements in place then, at the appropriate time, when the ambient conditions are there, we can then activate that plan and mobilise the airlines and other partners to facilitate the kind of cross-border travel that we want to achieve.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
former students of ngee ann polytechnic engineering lecturer tan boon lee have accused him of racially and religiously insensitive behaviour in the classroom.
one of them, ms nurul fatimah iskandar, 22, said in an instagram post on wednesday that mr tan had initiated an offensive discussion about islam during lesson time, when she was his student about four years ago.
she told the straits times yesterday: "he opened websites about islam and explained why he didn't agree with certain quranic verses.
"he then singled me out and tried to start a debate on the topic.
it didn't help that i was the only muslim student in class and i sat in the front row.
"asked about ms nurul's allegations, mr tan declined to comment "at the moment" but said he remembers her as a former student.
the polytechnic told the straits times last night that it was aware of the allegations against mr tan and deeply regrets ms nurul's experience.
it added that it has a zero-tolerance approach to any form of misconduct by members of its community.
"our staff members are expected to respect the cultural, ethnic and religious differences when interacting with students and other staff members," a spokesman for the poly said.
second minister for education maliki osman also addressed ms nurul's post, saying he was "shocked and disappointed" to hear about mr tan sharing his "personal and derogatory views on islam".
"there is no place for any anti-ethnic and anti-religious remarks in our education institutions, and even more so from an educator," dr maliki said in a post on facebook last night.
mr tan, 60, is assisting the police with investigations after he was filmed making racist remarks to ice cream store owner dave parkash, 26, and his girlfriend jacqueline ho, 27, a user experience designer, in orchard road last saturday night.
the polytechnic has suspended him from teaching duties and is conducting an internal investigation after a video of the incident surfaced online on sunday.
in its statement last night, the polytechnic added that it would not hesitate to take disciplinary actions against mr tan, including dismissal, if appropriate.
ms nurul, who is now an electrical engineering student at the national university of singapore, said the incident involving mr tan happened in july 2017. she was a second-year electrical engineering student at the polytechnic at the time.
ms nurul said it was tough for her to speak up against her lecturer as she was afraid her scholarship would be at stake if things went badly.
ms nurul finally mustered the courage to send an e-mail to the school about what happened.
she never got a response, she said.
since she put up the post about the incident on instagram, ms nurul said more accounts about mr tan from other students have come to her attention.
one instagram user alleged that mr tan once made disparaging comments about christianity in class, causing outrage among students.
another alleged that he had made her take off her hijab.
national institute of education don jason tan said while it is important for teachers to be able to conduct discussions on difficult issues such as race and religion, they must do so with basic respect.
"the first step is for them to confront their own biases and prejudices," he said.
"what happens in classrooms shape students' values, attitudes and behaviours.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
carbis bay, united kingdom: g7 leaders are on saturday (jun 12) set to agree a joint declaration aimed at preventing another pandemic, as they resume wide-ranging talks at their first in-person summit in almost two years.
the group of leading economies britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the united states will also try to showcase western democratic cohesion against a resurgent china and recalcitrant russia.
they will be joined by the leaders of australia, south africa and south korea, along with india taking part remotely, as the agenda broadens to foreign policy issues and climate change.
the g7 is meeting face to face for the first time since 2019, at a beachside venue in cornwall, southwest england, after the coronavirus led to the cancellation of last year's summit.
the leaders opened the three-day summit friday with expectations of a pledge to donate one billion vaccine doses to poor countries this year and next much too slow to end the crisis now, campaigners said.
us president joe biden arrived with a message of solidarity and resolve in stark contrast to the isolationist stance of his predecessor donald trump.
after the traditional family photo and opening session on "building back better" from covid-19, the leaders spent the evening at a reception hosted by queen elizabeth ii at cornwall's eden project.
a renowned attraction showcasing the world's ecological riches, the site also hosted a g7 meeting with prince charles and 10 international business leaders to discuss ramping up sustainable growth.
the g7 this weekend will also tackle climate change, and safeguarding global biodiversity, to lay the groundwork for the un's pivotal cop26 environmental summit in scotland in november.
the leaders are debating a pledge to protect at least 30 per cent of the world's land and oceans by 2030. on saturday's foreign policy agenda, this year's coup in myanmar and crackdown on pro-democracy supporters in belarus are expected to figure, alongside tensions with russia and china.
most of the leaders will reconvene on monday in brussels for a nato meeting, before biden heads on to his first summit with president vladimir putin in geneva, vowing to deliver a blunt message about russian behaviour.
"i'll tell you (about it) after i've delivered it," biden told reporters friday.
the g7 is expected to finalise the "carbis bay declaration" comprising a series of commitments to prevent a repeat of the devastation wreaked by the coronavirus.
"for the first time today the world's leading democracies have come together to make sure that never again will we be caught unawares," british prime minister boris johnson said in remarks released ahead of the summit's second day.
"that means learning lessons from the last 18 months and doing it differently next time around.
"the declaration will be published sunday alongside the g7's final communique, following a beachside barbecue on saturday night.
the collective steps include slashing the time taken to develop and licence vaccines, treatments and diagnostics for any future disease to under 100 days, while reinforcing global surveillance networks.
the leaders will vow to boost genomic sequencing capacity, and support reforms to strengthen the world health organization (who), according to johnson's government, which like the us wants china to allow new access to who experts to determine how covid-19 first emerged.
who chief tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, criticised in some quarters for being too accommodating of china, welcomed the health pact.
and he said the un agency would examine a british proposal to create a "global pandemic radar" to send early warnings of future outbreaks.
"the world needs a stronger global surveillance system to detect new epidemic and pandemic risks," tedros said.
the g7 leaders are also expected to outline more help for developing nations to build up infrastructure, as a counterpoint to the debt-fuelled spending by china in africa, asia and latin america.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — four antigen rapid test (art) self-test kits will be available from 16 june at guardian, unity, and watsons retail pharmacies, the multi-ministry taskforce (mtf) on covid-19 said on thursday (10 june).
the measure was unveiled by the mtf at a virtual media conference as it announced that singapore will gradually move back to phase 3 (heightened alert) in two steps, with one set of measures taking effect from 14 june and another from 21 june.
more of the self-test kits will be made available at more retail locations progressively.
the self-test kits can produce results in less than 20 minutes, are simple to use and can be self-administered, the ministry of health (moh) said separately in a statement.
to ensure that there are adequate supplies, sales will be initially limited to 10 art kits per person, moh added.
the four kits that have been granted interim authorisation for public sale by the health sciences authority (hsa) are 'abbott panbiotm covid-19 antigen self-test', 'quickvue at-home otc covid-19 test', 'sd biosensor sars-cov-2 antigen self-test nasal', and 'sd biosensor standard q covid-19 ag home test'.
director of medical services kenneth mak told reporters that the art self-test kits complement singapore's overall surveillance strategy.
"these fast and easy-to-use tests allow us to detect infected cases more quickly, in particular among individuals those who do not have acute respiratory infection symptoms, but are concerned that they may have been exposed to covid-19.
"individuals who have a positive result for their art self-test should immediately approach a swab and send home public health preparedness clinic (sash phpc) for a confirmatory polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
they are then required to self-isolate until they get a negative pcr test result.
those who test negative on their self-test art should continue to stay vigilant and adhere to prevailing safe management measures.
individuals who have ari symptoms should continue to visit a doctor for a full diagnosis and pcr test instead of relying on an art self-test kit.
hsa said in a separate statement that arts have lower sensitivity than pcr tests and have a higher chance of false negative results.
"incorrect sample preparation or testing process when using the test, or a low viral protein level in the user's nasal sample (e. g.  1-2 days from potential exposure), could also result in a false negative result.
anyone with acute respiratory infection symptoms should consult a doctor," hsa said.
singapore is currently in phase 2 (heightened alert) reopening, which started on 16 may and will end on 13 june.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother stories:singaporean woman, 86, dies from covid-19; linked to ttsh clusterman who wanted to get married in china breached shn to appeal to icagurmit singh, actor in covid-19 jingle, fined $800 for speedingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatibook en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenbeijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made ochina's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosouth korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderssecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore and australia are looking to work closer together to enhance trade and investment in environmentally sustainable goods and services as well as drive down emissions in maritime operations, as part of deepening ties between the two countries.
a new green economy agreement and a public-private partnership to lower emissions in maritime shipping and port operations were part of discussions between prime minister lee hsien loong and his australian counterpart scott morrison yesterday.
the two leaders met at the istana and reaffirmed the excellent state of bilateral relations, the ministry of foreign affairs (mfa) said in a statement.
they also reaffirmed their shared commitment to strengthening the singapore-australia comprehensive strategic partnership (csp) agreement, which the two countries signed in 2015 to deepen cooperation.
they noted the good progress made in the csp over the past year, despite the challenges presented by covid-19.
the agreement's five pillars are economics and trade, defence and foreign affairs, science and innovation, people-to-people, and the digital economy, which was added as a fifth pillar last year.
the mfa said both prime ministers agreed to keep the csp forward-looking by furthering cooperation in emerging areas.
by building upon a memorandum of understanding on low-cost emissions signed last year, both countries will be embarking on a public-private partnership on low-emission maritime and shipping, said mfa.
a joint statement by the two prime ministers yesterday said that this partnership will start off with a combined initial contribution of up to a$30 million (s$30.
8 million), and will see business and government in australia and singapore work together on low-emission fuels and technologies.
"the prime ministers also discussed exploring a broader partnership on a green economy agreement to facilitate trade and investment in environmentally sustainable goods and services," mfa added.
the ministry also said both countries will start discussions on a fintech bridge to enhance cooperation in fintech policy and regulation, which will build upon the high-level digital economy agreement that they made last year.
this fintech bridge will look for opportunities for collaboration on joint innovation projects, as well as facilitate investments and new business opportunities in digital trade and financial services, said the two prime ministers.
on the defence front, pm lee said at a joint news conference with mr morrison that the republic greatly appreciates australia's generous support for the singapore armed forces' training "over many years, in many airbases and camps all over australia".
a new memorandum of understanding (mou) between the health ministries of the two countries was signed yesterday to enhance cooperation on healthcare and health technologies.
the two countries have also agreed to ink an agreement on operational science and technology cooperation to develop and enhance capabilities for homeland security and law enforcement agencies to prevent crime and maintain law and order.
an existing mou between the singapore symphony orchestra and melbourne symphony orchestra will be renewed as well.
both leaders said that in an increasingly uncertain and complex strategic environment, australia and singapore are like-minded partners with a high degree of strategic trust.
they agreed to increase the frequency and complexity of professional exchanges, dialogues and training activities between the two countries.
the two leaders also discussed regional developments yesterday, and both said a strong, cohesive and responsive asean is vital to the region's success and recovery.
agreeing that asean could play an important role in facilitating a peaceful solution to the situation in myanmar, pm lee and mr morrison called for an immediate cessation of violence, the release of all political detainees there, including foreigners, and inclusive dialogue between all parties.
both prime ministers also reaffirmed their shared commitment to maintaining and promoting peace, security and stability in the region, as well as to the peaceful resolution of disputes, including full respect for legal and diplomatic processes, without resorting to the threat or use of force, in accordance with international law.
they underlined australia and singapore's strong support for freedom of navigation, overflight and unimpeded trade in the south china sea.
"they also emphasised the importance of non-militarisation of disputed features and self-restraint in the conduct of activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and affect peace and stability," said the joint statement.
"they urged all claimants to take meaningful steps to ease tensions and build trust, including through dialogue.
"hariz baharudinjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: thesingapore-hong kong air travel bubblewill remain on hold even though the covid-19 situation in singapore has improved, the ministry of transport (mot) said on thursday (jun 10).
authorities on both sides will review the situation in july before deciding on a launch date.
the covid-19 situation in hong kong has remained stable, with very few community cases in recent weeks, the ministry noted.
"both singapore and hong kong remain strongly committed to launching the air travel bubble safely.
we will continue to monitor the public health situation in both places closely," mot said.
both singapore's transport minister s iswaran and hong kong's secretary for commerce and economic development edward yau have maintained "close contact", the ministry said, adding that they agreed that both sides would review the situation in early july, before making a decision on the target launch dates of flights under the air travel bubble.
"an update will be provided at that point," said mot.
the singapore-hong kong air travel bubble was initially scheduled to be launched onnov 22last year, but it was deferred after a rise in covid-19 cases in hong kong.
a rescheduled launch planned formay 26this year was also pushed back due to an increase in unlinked covid-19 community cases in singapore.
under the terms of the agreement, the travel bubble will be suspended for at least 14 days if the seven-day moving average of unlinked local covid-19 cases a day, excluding dormitory resident cases in singapore, is more than five in either singapore or hong kong.
during a press conference by the covid-19 multi-ministry task force on thursday, health minister ong ye kung said he did not think that singapore had met the criteria for the resumption of the air travel bubble.
"and even if we crossed the criteria for resumption .
.
.
we are in a very cautious state," mr ong said in response to a question.
"and so we probably don't want to rush.
it's important that at this state – embers are still there – we want to be quite cautious.
"mr ong said it is, however, important to "get conversations going".
"there's really .
.
.
no harm, and in fact good, to continue to talk to our various partners, to see how we can restore our connections with the world safely.
when the time is right," mr ong said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
washington: the united states and china clashed in rare talks on friday (jun 11) as president joe biden made his international debut at the group of seven (g7) summit, with his administration pressing beijing on covid-19, taiwan and human rights.
secretary of state antony blinken, joining biden at the summit of industrial democracies in england, spoke by telephone with senior chinese official yang jiechi their first talks since a heated in-person encounter in alaska in march.
as biden used his first presidential trip abroad to unveil a massive plan tobuy and distribute 500 million covid-19 vaccine dosesaround the world, blinken renewed us pressure on china over the origins of the pandemic that has killed more than 3.
7 million people.
blinken "stressed the importance of cooperation and transparency regarding the origin of the virus", including allowing world health organization (who) experts back into china, state department spokesman ned price said in a statement.
biden has ordered us intelligence to report back by late august whether covid-19, first detected in late 2019 in the city of wuhan, emerged from an animal source or a laboratory accident.
former president donald trump trotted out the lab-leak theory but was widely dismissed, with many believing he was seeking to deflect criticism over his own handling of the pandemic, but biden has said there was aneed for further studyafter criticising beijing for not giving more access to a who probe.
the laboratory theory has outraged china, which has sought to rebrand itself in the world's eyes not as the country that failed to stop the virus but as a model on how to contain it.
"interests of small circles"yang, a senior politburo member who has long taken a lead in beijing's handling of the united states, renewed denunciations of washington as biden met with leaders from other g7 nations britain, canada, france, germany, italy and japan.
"genuine multilateralism is not pseudo-multilateralism based on the interests of small circles," yang told blinken, according to state television.
"the only genuine multilateralism is that founded on the principles of the charter of the united nations and international law," yang said.
yang also renewed accusations of us hypocrisy on human rights as blinken pressed on what the united states considers the genocide of uyghurs and other mostly muslim turkic people who are incarcerated in camps.
"the united states should resolve its own domestic serious human rights violations, and not use the so-called human rights issues as an excuse to arbitrarily interfere in the internal affairs of other countries," he said.
yang made similar accusations about the united states in front of cameras during the meeting in anchorage, taking aback us officials who expected brief, civil remarks but raising his star power inside china.
concern on taiwanblinken also voiced alarm at china's increasing pressure on taiwan including military flights off its coast.
blinken "called on beijing to cease its pressure campaign against taiwan and peacefully resolve cross-strait issues", the state department statement said.
washington has been increasingly alarmed that china will attempt to use force on taiwan, a self-governing democracy it considers part of its territory, after its sweeping curbs on freedoms in hong kong.
the united states in recent days agreed toreopen trade talks with taiwanand authorised a military plane to bring a delegation of senators who offered covid-19 vaccines.
amid wide bipartisan criticism of china, biden has largely continued the hawkish stance of trump, in substance if not in tone.
the biden administration has described china as a preeminent international challenge and vowed to counter it by shoring up alliances and investing heavily in infrastructure and development at home.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
the humanitarian organisation for migration economics (home) welcomes the news that cleaners who are singaporeans and permanent residents will see wage increments under the progressive wage model (cleaners to see their wages increase over 6 years from 2023, june 8).
however, as cleaning jobs are also performed by migrant workers, the move to increase the pay of cleaners must also include migrant workers, who are excluded from the progressive wage model.
in research that home published last year regarding the working conditions of bangladeshi conservancy workers, we stated that they earn gross monthly wages of between $500 and $800.
we also found that they are severely overworked.
home spoke to more than 30 workers.
many reported working at least 12-hour shifts with little rest, and having to attend to unexpected calls at any time of the day or night.
all the workers home spoke to stated that they had no rest days at all.
they also said it is not uncommon for a worker to be denied public holidays and annual leave for the period of their employment.
the covid-19 pandemic has increased their workload as work-from-home arrangements have generated more waste, and more intense and frequent cleaning is required to disinfect areas with higher footfall.
while the government encourages town councils to go beyond cost considerations in awarding bids to cleaning companies, town councils are still under pressure to be seen as fiscally prudent, and this results in contracts being awarded to companies that pay workers low wages.
a cleaning company we interviewed said the low barriers to entry and competitive market conditions offer little incentive to pay workers more as companies are afraid of being priced out of the industry.
all low-wage workers, regardless of nationality, should receive equal protection.
it is important to include migrant cleaners in the progressive wage model if we wish to deal with depressed wages and poor employment conditions in the sector.
responsible outsourcing can be mainstreamed only when wage inequalities and exploitative working conditions are tackled for all workers, and not just for a segment of them.
when there is an underclass of migrants who are easy to exploit, companies are less willing to improve the wages, benefits and working conditions of its employees, local or foreign.
jaya anil kumarhumanitarian organisation for migration economicsjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
by melissa koenig for dailymail.
com and associated press  published:  21:03 bst, 11 june 2021   |  updated:  01:22 bst, 12 june 2021    266view  commentsa lobster diver was swallowed whole by a hungry humpback whale but lived to tell the tale because the creature didn't like how he tasted, and spat him back out.
michael packard, 56, had been a commercial lobster diver out of provincetown, massachusetts for 40 years and was going on a routine lobster dive off the coast of cape cod last friday morning when he said he 'felt a huge bump and everything went dark.
'at first, he said he thought he had been attacked by a shark, but when he realized he did not feel any sharp teeth and was not in pain, he began to figure out what had happened.
'i realized, oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth .
.
.
and he's trying to swallow me,' packard told wbz-tv following the encounter.
'and i thought to myself ok, this is it i'm finally i'm gonna die.
'packard, who is an experienced diver, started to think about his wife and his 12 and 15 year old sons, and began to struggle inside the beast's mouth until, he said, he saw a light and the whale started shaking his head side-to side.
'i just got thrown in the air and landed in the water,' packard recounted to the cbs affiliate.
'i was free and i just floated there.
i couldn't believe.
.
.
i'm here to tell it. '
he estimates he was in the whale's mouth for about 30 seconds, but continued to breathe because he still had his breathing apparatus in.
michael packard, 56, suffered only minor injuries after being trapped inside a humpback whale's mouth for roughly 30 seconds on friday morning.
experts say being eaten by a humpback whale is extremely rare, with one suggesting the whale made a mistake when it sucked packard in and quickly spat him out (file photo)packard had been a lobster diver for 40 years at the time of the incident and was rescued by a crewmate who called authorities on the shorepackard took to facebook following the incident to thank the provincetown rescue squad for its 'caring and help'packard was rescued by his crewmate josiah mayo who was aboard their boat 'the j n' j.
'mayo watched in shock as the water beside the boat erupted as the whale surfaced and packard flew out of the mammal's mouth.
he plucked packard out of the water, according to the cape cod times, and used his radio to call authorities on the shore.
the provincetown fire department later confirmed that a call came in about a diver who had suffered serious injuries to his legs 'after interacting with a whale.
'at first packard said, he thought he had broken his legs in the incident, but doctors later told he he just had soft tissue damage and bruises, and he was released from a local hospital later that day.
in a following facebook post, packard thanked the provincetown rescue squad for its 'caring and help' he said that when he was stuck inside the whale's mouth his thoughts turned to his wife and his 12 and 15 year old sons experts say it is extremely rare to be swallowed by a humpback whale, peter corkeron, a senior scientist at the new england aquarium estimating there is a one in 1 trillion chance someone would be eaten by a whale.
when a humpback feeds, he said,  'they do what we call gulp feeding, and they an open their mouths up incredibly widely,' which jooke robbins, the director of humpback whales studies at the center for coastal studies, said could limit their forward vision.
'based on what was described, this would have to be a mistake, and an accident on the part of the humpback,' robbins concluded.
'he was just unlucky enough to be in the wrong place at the wrong time,' corkeron conceded.
the humpback likely hoped it would get a mouthful of sand lance fish, which live in the waters off cape cod.
experts say whales are generally placid around humans, and show little aggression towards them.
but they have warned divers to stay at least 100 feet away from the powerful animals at all times, because even an accidental brush with one can be very dangerous as packard discovered.
share what you think
          the comments below have not been moderated.
the views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of mailonline.
by posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual  we will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on mailonline.
to do this we will link your mailonline account with your facebook account.
we'll ask you to confirm this for your first post to facebook.
you can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to facebook.
your details from facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our privacy policy.
published by associated newspapers ltdpart of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group
by yew lun tianbeijing (reuters) china passed a wide-ranging law to counter foreign sanctions on thursday, in an apparent move to legalise its tit-for-tat retaliation against punitive actions taken by foreign countries over issues from human rights to hong kong.
the law, effective immediately, builds upon previous administrative counter-measures against foreign sanctions issued by the chinese foreign and commerce ministries.
it also lays out the scope of china's counter-sanctions.
who's the target?individuals or entities involved in the making or implementation of discriminatory measures against chinese citizens, or interfering with china's internal affairs could be put onto a blacklist, according to the full text of the law published on thursday.
blacklisted individuals could find their relatives, and the organisations of which they are senior managers or have control over placed on the list.
"relevant departments" in the chinese government can decide who to put on or remove from the blacklist.
what happens to those blacklisted?those blacklisted could be denied entry into china or deported from china.
their assets within china can be sealed, seized or frozen.
entities within china could be restricted from engaging in all forms of transactions or cooperation or other activities, potentially limiting the investment activities of blacklisted entities in china.
chinese citizens or organisations can sue in chinese courts those who enforce foreign measures that discriminate against them.
how is this different from the past?while the foreign ministry has previously announced sanctions mainly against individuals including western politicians and scholars, it had not cited a specific law as the legal basis.
it was also not always clear what those sanctions entailed.
although the commerce ministry has announced mechanisms targeted at foreign entities such as a so-called "unreliable entity list", there have been no known instances of companies being put on the list.
the new law combines many features of these administrative orders by the foreign and commerce ministries, such as allowing chinese companies to sue for compensation and denying entry to blacklisted persons.
beijing analysts say the new law makes china's sanctions appear less random, as it spells out who can be blacklisted and what the sanctions would entail.
what do supporters say?state media and experts in china said the new law was a long overdue "legal weapon" needed to deter the west from interfering in china's internal affairs.
all 14 vice-chairpersons of china's legislature who passed the law have been under u. s.  sanctions for passing the national security law last year that critics say has crippled political freedoms in hong kong.
in other measures, the united states issued a ban on cotton and tomato imports from china's western xinjiang region in january, citing human rights violations and the use of forced labour in the region.
wang jiangyu, a law professor at city university of hong kong, said the european union has a law the "blocking statute" to counter u. s.  sanctions, so china should not be faulted for having a similar law.
"the new law is the stick part of the carrot and stick diplomacy.
but it is defensive in nature, not offensive, and will only be used when other countries apply sanctions on us first," said cheng xiaohe, an associate professor of international studies at the renmin university of china.
what do critics say?foreign companies increasingly fear they will be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess, said joerg wuttke, president of european union chamber of commerce.
chinese experts say the law could dampen the climate for foreign investment, but that the chinese government would have calculated this is a price worth paying to safeguard the country's interests.
(reporting by yew lun tian; editing by frances kerry)agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringena hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatidemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hoen elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
turns out the comic books were wrong.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore lawsuits brought by 13 bus drivers against transport operator sbs transit over overtime pay involve important questions of law that would affect a larger class of workers in singapore, a high court judge said.
the workers claim in their suits, filed in 2019 and 2020, that they had been made to work without a rest day each week, and were also underpaid for overtime work.
in a written judgment allowing the case to be transferred to the high court, justice audrey lim on thursday (june 10) noted that the employment act provides for mandated rest days and limits to hours of work to protect the rights of employees.
"the question of whether this can be 'overridden' in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services.
.
.
is important, as it affects a larger population of workers in general and not just the immediate plaintiff or parties to the case," justice lim said.
a provision in the act allows an employer to require employees in essential services to work in excess of the prescribed limit of hours or to work on a rest day.
the questions thus involve the interpretation of provisions in the employment act relating to whether a rest day can be scheduled such that an employee can be made to work for 12 consecutive days over a 14-day period, and whether bus drivers fall within the definition of employees providing "essential services".
justice lim said there would be potential ramifications on how such employment contracts are structured in terms of granting days off, computing overtime pay and determining work hours.
on sept 20, 2019, five bus drivers each filed a magistrate's court suit against sbs transit.
subsequently, eight others filed similar suits against sbs.
all 13 plaintiffs are represented by lawyer m.  ravi.
last year, the parties agreed for the suit relating to one plaintiff to be heard as a test case, to save time and money.
this means the court's decision and findings on mr chua qwong meng's suit will be binding on all the plaintiffs.
mr chua claims that sbs had breached the terms of his employment contract, which commenced on april 3, 2017, and the employment act.
he alleged that sbs failed to give him a rest day each week.
he also alleged that he was underpaid for overtime work which includes working on a rest day, for working beyond the prescribed hours and for working on a public holiday.
sbs, which is represented by senior counsel davinder singh, denies his claims.
it asserts that it has complied with its contractual obligations and the laws, rules or regulations pertaining to working hours, overtime pay and rest days.
in particular, the law provides that an employee providing "essential services" may be required to exceed the prescribed work hours, and to work on a rest day.
in march, mr chua filed an application to transfer the test case from the magistrate's court to the high court.
mr ravi argued that the case should be transferred to the high court, as it involves an important question of law that has the potential to affect all classes of employees in singapore.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore singapore and australia will work towards putting in place an air travel bubble between the two countries, their prime ministers said on thursday (june 10), after more than a year of travel disruption caused by the pandemic.
"we discussed how two-way travel between singapore and australia can eventually resume, in a safe and calibrated manner, when both sides are ready," singapore leader lee hsien loong told a joint news conference with visiting australian counterpart scott morrison.
singapore had in march said the two nations were discussing plans for quarantine-free travel.
both singapore and australia have avoided the severe coronavirus outbreaks suffered by many counties, with total cases at just over 62,000 and 30,000 respectively.
lee said infrastructure and processes for resuming travel needed to be put in place, starting with mutual recognition of health and vaccination certificates.
"when all preparations are ready, then we can start small with an air travel bubble to build confidence on both sides," he said.
[[nid:526360]]morrison is the first foreign leader to make an official visit to the city-state since the start of the covid-19 pandemic last year.
he stopped in singapore on his way to britain for the g7 leaders' summit.
the leaders' discussions also included a potential fintech bridge and exploration of a green economy agreement.
morrison said he welcomed the countries working together to put the systems in place to enable a bubble to emerge between them.
however, he said: "there is still some time before we reach that milestone. "
supply lines is a daily newsletter that tracks trade and supply chains disrupted by the pandemic.
sign up here.
delays from congestion at southern chinese ports triggered by fresh covid-19 outbreaks are rippling through global supply chains, threatening to inflate costs and exacerbate disruptions.
a cargo vessel operated by cosco shipping lines co.  will skip a scheduled port stop in singapore this month because of delays in china, according to alliance partner ocean network express holdings ltd.  one of cma cgm's vessels heading to china in july will also not call at the southeast asia trans-shipment hub.
"the delays have already resulted in pressurizing soaring shipping prices within china due to a lack of containers and increased export demand," said josh brazil, vice president of marketing at project44, a supply-chain intelligence firm.
"these high shipping costs are just one factor that may contribute to an additional looming threat to global inflation.
"ship waiting times in singapore are up from a year earliersource: project44a virus outbreak at yantian in shenzhen has already inflated spot freight rates globally, with drewry's world container index increasing 10% in the past three weeks, said simon heaney, senior manager of container research at drewry shipping consultants ltd. "it feels inevitable that rates will climb higher as we head into the third-quarter peak season," he said.
"both importers and exporters will suffer if delays and waiting times extend.
"the disruption is causing further pain for global shippers already struggling with interruptions to supply chains from the pandemic, and the ever given's grounding in the suez canal earlier this year.
trans-shipment dwell times in singapore are at about eight to nine days now, up from roughly five days a year ago, according to estimates from project44.
vessel schedules and carrier service levels have been disrupted by delays at yantian port, and congestion has spilled over to the nearby shekou and nansha terminals, psa singapore said in an emailed response to queries.
"we expect vessel arrivals in singapore to be affected as well.
"however, container vessels calling at psa singapore's terminal aren't facing longer wait times as a result of the delays in yantian yet, the container operator said.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a local company is being investigated for manufacturing surgical masks here without a licence, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
this is the first time a firm is suspected of that action.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent, with the masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
a total of 33 cartons, each containing about 2,500 masks, were seized.
under the health products act, firms are required to have a licence from hsa to manufacture surgical masks.
vision empire international was also suspected to have imported surgical masks from overseas before repackaging, rebranding and reselling them without having a licence to do so.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
they were sold on local e-commerce platforms for between $10 and $22 per box of 50 masks, according to preliminary investigations.
consumers who have made purchases are advised to stop using them immediately, hsa said.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
photo: health sciences authority 
it added that these listings have been removed with the assistance of the platform administrators, and vision empire international has been directed to recall the products.
investigations are ongoing, the authority said.
manufacturers and repackers of surgical masks are licensed by hsa to ensure good quality and safety for use.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment, with the produced masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
photo: health sciences authority 

the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent.
photo: health sciences authority 
in its release, the authority said surgical masks from unlicensed facilities have not been verified to meet the standards of quality, filtration capability and breathability.
"sub-standard masks may not provide the desirable level of protection to the wearer," it added, noting that masks made, repackaged and/or stored in unsanitary conditions could be contaminated.
"wearing such masks may increase the users' risk of developing skin irritation, respiratory symptoms or infections," hsa said.
it will take strong enforcement action against those who illegally manufacture and/or supply masks.
those who do so could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for up to two years or fined up to $50,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
following the latest announcement from the singapore government, dream cruises is pleased to announce that effective from june 14, 2021, the world dream will resume operating at the permitted 50 percent passenger capacity where guests from different households may now enjoy the option of traveling in a group size of up to five.
additionally, from june 21 onwards, guests may indulge in a feast for the palates and eyes where they may explore and enjoy dining in at over 35 f&b concepts around the ship including asian, international and halal-certified cuisine and enjoy additional live performances including singing, magic shows and ballroom dancing by our international performers.
with the well-being of its guests and crew its number one priority, dream cruises maintains the highest standards in safety with comprehensive precautionary measures in place.
since the restart of cruise operations in november 2020, world dream has enjoyed over seven months of covid-19 incident-free sailings in singapore and has received tremendous positive feedback on social media from guests on their experiences onboard the ship.
"dream cruises would like to thank the people of singapore who have continued to support world dream even during this period of stricter health guidelines and safety precautions.
despite the heightened health measures of the previous month, world dream has enjoyed robust sales in june and we are seeing limited availability of cruises in july," said michael goh, president of dream cruises.
"with the diligence of our crew to provide the safest environment for our guests onboard, world dream has extended its proven track record as a worry-free vacation option for singaporeans.
""not only are we excited to welcome a higher capacity of guests up to 50% aboard world dream for a super summer seacation, we are also excited to introduce our unique japanese-themed cruise experience from june 20 until sept.  18.  this includes the world's first lavender fields of hokkaido and torii gates of kyoto at sea, complemented by a variety of fun-filled japanese-related activities and cuisine ideal for vacationers and families, especially during the present school holidays," he added.
as part of the unique japanese themed cruises on world dream from june 20 to sept.  18, guests can begin their wonderful journey aboard by strolling through the stunning and breathtaking torii tunnel surrounded by pink sakura trees, as well as a dreamy lavender field specially created and inspired by popular destinations like hokkaido in japan.
guests will also be able to enjoy all things japanese, including lavender sachet and crepe paper making workshops, relaxing with a lavender spa treatment or personally experiencing traditional geisha culture from make-up demonstrations to hair ornament tutorials, japanese parasol dance classes, as well as favorite and popular japanese cuisine and so much more.
"we had launched a series of successful thematic cruises centered around the asia pacific starting with the rhythm of korea and amazing thailandthematic cruises; and soon guests can discover the wonders of japan on world dream.
guests can look forward to more amazing and global thematic cruises towards year-end including the markets of the world and nordic christmas thematic sailings later this year," noted goh.
get the latest breaking cruise news.
sign up.
101 ships | 209,402 berths | $61 billion | viewhighlights:market overview40+ new ships2021-2027first to recovernew playersfull coverageorder todayhighlights:entire industrysupply dataall companies400 pagesdigital access2027 outlookorder today
the high court on thursday (10 june) gave permission to 13 sbs transit bus drivers to transfer their case from the state courts to the high court, based on important questions of law or public importance regarding the interpretation of certain employment act (ea) provisions relevant to their case.
in the landmark decision, justice audrey lim said in a written judgement that the issues raised by the drivers met the first ground concerning important questions of law under section 54b of the state courts act (sca).
an important question of law, as viewed within the ambit of section 54b of the sca, should concern "more than the immediate interests of the parties".
it should "be of some public importance, or a point of law which would affect other cases", she added.
however, such a question does not have to be "a difficult or complex one, although it may be so in many instances", said the judge.
in the case of the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, questions of law that were raised were brought up in relation to the following ea provisions, among others:justice lim found that the above questions of law affect not only the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, but also "a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector who may potentially fall within the definition of employees" under part iii of the criminal law (temporary provisions) act (cla).
part iii of the cla encompasses employees "in any industrial undertaking essential to the economy of singapore or any of the essential services" listed under the provision, pursuant to section 38(2)(f) of the ea.
the ea's provisions on mandated rest days and limits to hours of work, among others, serve as safeguards against the exploitation of the rights of employees, justice lim noted.
"the question of whether this can be "overridden" in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services, which on its face may not look like a difficult question, is important as it affects a larger population of workers in general and not just the immediate plaintiff or parties to the case," she reasoned.
such a question, the judge elaborated, would have "potential ramifications on how such contracts are structured in terms of granting off days, computing overtime pay and determining work hours".
"this however, is not to be taken to mean that in every case in which a provision of the ea is engaged that it would thus constitute an important question of law," said justice lim.
justice lim also touched on the issue of one of the drivers, chua qwong meng's action of urging his case to be made a 'test case'.
while the sca does not provide a definition of a 'test case', the judge noted that both sbs transit and the drivers accept the definitions in black's law dictionary, which state that a 'test case' is:1.  a lawsuit brought to establish an important legal principle or right.
such an action is frequently brought by the parties' mutual consent on agreed facts – when that is so, a test case is also sometimes termed amicable action or amicable suit; or2.
an action selected from several suits that are based on the same facts and evidence, raise the same question of law, and have a common plaintiff or a common defendant.
sometimes, when all parties agree, the court orders a consolidation and all parties are bound by the decision in the test case.
– also termed test action.
in the present case, the action brought by the sbs transit drivers to transfer the suit falls within the definition of a "test case", as it fits the second definition stated above, said justice lim.
she also rejected sbs transit's submission that a test case should, on top of the second definition above, include case management "or other concerns which would make the matter unsuitable for determination by the state courts".
referencing the australian case cited by sbs transit, justice lim said that unlike the relevant australian provisions that contain guidelines on the federal magistrates court's discretion to transfer proceedings to a higher court, there are no such requirements in section 54b(1) of the sca in singapore.
"i add that such matters may, however, constitute relevant considerations under the second stage of the inquiry pertaining to the exercise of the court's discretion whether to transfer even if one of the grounds in s. 54b(1) is made out," she added.
human rights lawyer mr ravi of k.  k.  cheng law llc, who represents the drivers, dubbed the decision a "ground-breaking" one, as the high court "acknowledged that there are important questions of law of public importance centring around the interpretation of provisions employment act".
such questions, he said, "affect a larger class of employees and workers in general, and would have potential ramifications on how employment contracts are structured in terms of granting off days, computing overtime pay and determining work hours".
mr ravi also noted that he has decided to act for the drivers on a pro bono basis as they were "not able to keep up with their installment payments" for the "small fee" he had charged them.
mr ravi's team comprises himself, as well as his knowledge manager guo rendi, senior law researcher gabriel rafferty, and paralegal sankari loganathan.
"at the same time during the pandemic came in more pro bono death penalty cases that needed urgent attention and sankari ably handled the families and distraught mothers with her kind demeanour," he said.
"on the sbs case , my entire team were and are committed to sacrificing the extra hours which has now paved way for the determination of the ambit of certain provisions of the employment act, like the meaning of" rest days"," overtime" etc.
this case will effectively also determine the rights of about 6000 sbs drivers in singapore," mr ravi added.
sbs transit is represented by a team of five lawyers from davinder singh chambers, led by senior counsel davinder singh.
on 3 mar last year, five bus drivers argued that by failing to compensate its bus drivers at the basic hourly rate of pay for their waiting time between shifts, sbs transit had breached an implied term stated in their service agreement.
the lawsuit arose after the two parties had failed to reach a settlement in their final mediation session between the first tranche of suits as reported in feb last year.
in a statement of claim filed in the state courts that month, the bus drivers alleged that the company has breached several provisions under the ea — the statutory legislation upon which the terms and conditions pertaining to their working hours and overtime were based on.
the bus drivers claimed that sbs transit had failed to compensate them at the basic hourly rate of pay "for the period between 4 a. m.  to 5 a. m.  on the morning and split shifts" in which the drivers are "engaged to be waiting", and "between 9 a. m.  and 1 p. m.  on the split shift".
sbs transit, they added, had also failed to abide by clause 24(9) of the service agreement by not compensating them the agreed allowance of $18 for work done on the night shift.
the company, they alleged, had also breached section 36(1) of the ea by failing to provide on a roster a weekly rest day.
in addition, the company had violated section 37(3)(b) and section 37(3)(c) of the ea by not paying them "the statutorily prescribed rate" of a sum at the basic rate of pay for two days' worth of work, the bus drivers argued.
by imposing a "built-in overtime" that resulted in the bus drivers working for longer than the statutorily prescribed daily work period of eight hours as well as 44 hours per week, sbs transit had also breached section 38(1) of the ea, according to the bus drivers.
other breaches under the ea allegedly made by sbs transit, as claimed by the bus drivers, include compensating them at the normal hourly rate of pay — instead of the statutorily prescribed rate of an extra day's salary at the basic rate of pay for one day's work, in addition to the gross rate of pay for that day — for work done on public holidays.
the five additional bus drivers bring the total number of bus drivers currently taking legal action against sbs transit to 13.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: member of parliament (mp) melvin yong has been elected president of the consumer association of singapore (case), the association said on friday (jun 11).
mr yong, who is mp for the radin mas single member constituency, succeeds mr lim biow chuan, who had helmed case since 2012. in a media release, case executive director lee siow hwee said mr yong was elected at its 48th annual general meeting on friday, where the new central committee was also elected or appointed into office.
mr yong, 49, is assistant secretary-general of the national trades union congress (ntuc) and executive secretary of the national transport workers' union (ntwu).
he was first elected to the case central committee in june 2018 and was appointed the role of vice-president in november 2019. as chairperson of case's consumer empowerment taskforce, he oversaw two projects that "empower consumers to make informed purchasing decisions".
one of the projects, the price kaki app, gives consumers easy access to in-store retail prices and promotions of common household items, groceries, and hawker food, according to case.
since its launch in september 2019, it has been downloaded more than 72,000 times.
the other project is fuel kaki, a website that gives consumers access to timely information on pump prices and promotions for effective comparison, said case.
since its launch in january 2020, there have been an average of 25,000 visitors a month to the website.
outgoing president mr lim was first elected case president on jun 23, 2012.  he served as vice-president from 2006 to 2012.
"under mr lim's leadership, case took firm and decisive steps to protect consumers by publicising and flagging out errant businesses and unfair practices to warn and alert consumers," said the association.
since 2012, it has issued several advisories against businesses in the beauty, motorcar, home renovation and furniture industries, "where consumers tend to purchase big-ticket items".
case also went after "recalcitrant" businesses and signed voluntary compliance agreements with 22 businesses who undertook to cease their unfair practices and compensate affected consumers, it added.
during mr lim's tenure, case said it obtained injunctions against firms engaging in unfair practices and worked closely with the competition and consumer commission of singapore to protect consumers.
mr lim led case's efforts to promote fair trading and ethical business practices among businesses and industries to boost consumer confidence, the association added.
through its arm casetrust, case has launched joint accreditation schemes with industry associations, with 771 entities accredited as at may 31. mr lim also worked with the ministry of trade and industry to advocate for the enactment of the lemon law provisions under the consumer protection (fair trading) act before it took effect in september 2012, with case holding outreach events to educate consumers and businesses on the law.
mr yong thanked mr lim and the outgoing central committee members for their contributions.
he said: "as case commemorates its 50th anniversary this year, it is timely that we take stock of our achievements and consider how we can continue to be relevant and respond to the needs of consumers.
"i will work closely with the new central committee, management and staff to look into how we can better protect and empower consumers in this new digital age.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a cyclist who punched a lorry driver after the latter confronted him with a flask on the road was fined $5,600 on thursday (10 june).
jeffery todd martin, a 57-year-old canadian, was caught in a widely shared video punching lorry driver zhang ping, who fell along jalan eunos.
martin pleaded guilty to one count of causing hurt to zhang, a 34-year-old chinese national, and one count of riding his bicycle in a disorderly manner without regard to safety of others.
zhang was dealt with separately, according to court documents, which did not state his punishment.
martin, a singapore permanent resident, was cycling ahead of zhang on the extreme left lane along jalan eunos on 24 february 2019.  zhang caught up with martin and overtook him from the right.
at about 10.
23am, as zhang was passing jalan awang, martin overtook him from the right side and cut in front.
martin turned around and pointed at zhang as he overtook him.
he continued cycling directly in front of zhang and stopped in the middle of the lane.
this forced zhang to stop his lorry despite the moving traffic.
martin alighted from his bicycle as zhang turned his lorry right.
he hit zhang's driver window and shouted vulgarities.
the canadian also shouted at zhang through the passenger window, prompting zhang to make a sharp left turn with his lorry towards martin.
the latter picked up his bicycle and took a few steps backwards to avoid the lorry.
martin placed his bicycle at a nearby grass patch while zhang alighted from his lorry and followed martin with an orange water flask in hand.
zhang stood in front of martin and gesticulated in the direction of his lorry, but without warning, martin punched the right side of zhang's mouth.
the force caused zhang to fall backwards on the road of jalan eunos.
martin then retrieved his bicycle and continued cycling along jalan eunos in the direction of still road.
a resident living in the vicinity attended to zhang, who moved to sit on the pavement as he felt dizzy.
zhang was later found to have superficial facial lacerations.
his medical expenses cost $126, which zhang's employer bore.
martin paid full compensation to zhang's employer on 21 april.
the acts were captured on zhang's in-car camera and by an eyewitness who recorded a video.
martin had previously fractured his collarbone in a previous incident and thus felt aggrieved when zhang drove close to him, said martin's lawyer suppiah thangaveloo.
the lawyer highlighted three instances when zhang came close to hitting martin, including when zhang reversed against martin, and his sudden swing to the left.
thangaveloo pointed out that his client did not actually confront zhang any further and took his bicycle to walk off, but zhang confronted him with a flask.
martin reacted instinctively with a punch before moving off, said the lawyer, who asked for a fine of between $3,000 and $4,000.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother singapore stories:validity of overseas malaysians' passports expiring in 2021 extended by 2 years for freetwo of four new covid cases in singapore are in communitypet shop manager who fought with sda fined, sda's case pendingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
hæv uden gebyrer med bank norwegian-kortet, og vælg selv mellem cashpoints eller cashback.
læs mere her.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
*tilbuddet gælder til og med søndag den 13.  juni 2021.  gælder ikke deodoranter, i forvejen nedsatte varer, fast lav pris og gaveæsker.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
tokyo [japan], june 11 (ani): japanese prime minister yoshihide suga referred to taiwan as a country, drawing a sharp reaction from beijing which regards the self-ruled island as its 'inalienable part'.
in his first one-on-one parliamentary debate with opposition leaders wednesday, suga, naming australia, new zealand and taiwan, said, "such three countries have been imposing strong restrictions on privacy rights" to curb the novel coronavirus outbreak, kyodo news reported.
self-governed taiwan is usually called a "region" in japan.
beijing claims full sovereignty over taiwan, a democracy of almost 24 million people located off the southeastern coast of mainland china, despite the fact that the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.
taipei, on the other hand, has countered the chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the us, which has been repeatedly opposed by beijing.
china has threatened that "taiwan's independence" means war.
suga's reference came as tokyo and beijing have already been at odds over several issues, including a territorial dispute in the east china sea and the crackdown on hong kong.
"china expresses strong dissatisfaction with japan's erroneous remarks and has lodged a solemn protest against japan," foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin told reporters in beijing on thursday.
"there is only one china in the world," wang said, urging japan to become more cautious in words and deeds on taiwan affairs and to avoid sending wrong signals to the island's independence forces.
suga's government has been strengthening its commitment to democratic taiwan.
recently, japan donated over 1.
2 million covid-19 doses to taiwan, as the island faces a spike in covid-19 cases.
china has also lambasted japan for donating vaccines, labelling such a move as a "political performance".
at his summit in washington in april, suga with us president joe biden acknowledged "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait. "
it marked the first time in 52 years that japanese and u. s.  leaders have mentioned taiwan in a joint statement.
(ani)kolkata, jun 10 (pti) a day after actor-mp nusrat jahan claimed that her marriage in turkey with businessman nikhil jain in 2019 is not valid under indian laws, her estranged husband alleged that she had avoided always his requests to get the marriage registered.
the fact that the congress doesn't have an ideology that binds its organisation together has made matters worse.
oplev den storsælgende niro og kør på strøm til hverdagislamabad [pakistan], june 11 (ani): united states, china along with several other countries have declined to accept mangoes that pakistan had dispatched to heads of over 32 countries as part of its "mango diplomacy" initiative.
new delhi [india], june 11 (ani): a group of public health experts, including doctors from aiims and members from the national task force on covid-19, has recommended that there is no need to vaccinate people who had documented covid-19 infection and underlined that mass, indiscriminate, and incomplete vaccination can also trigger the emergence of mutant strains.
earlier in the day, the bjp staged a protest in the islands seeking action against sulthana who hails from chetiath island in lakshadweep.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
the traditional hindu red dot on the forehead was seen on several pet dogs, who were melting the hearts of many viewers.
adhikari said that he is willing to work jointly with the state government as a leader of the oppositionthe picture went viral in 2016 as well with the same claim that the mla's car was displaying the flag of pakistan.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
given the variety of options, choosing the right phone for under rs 50,000 this month is going to be a lot tougher for buyers.
the two delhi police constables have been asked to respond to the notice within 15 days.
malda (west bengal) [india], june 11 (ani): the chinese national who was intercepted by security forces in west bengal's malda district had taken around 1,300 indian sims to china using fake documents, said border security force (bsf) on friday.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
mukul roy also hinted at the return of other tmc-turncoats into the party.
as per sources, prashant kishor will be meeting every leader who extended their support to mamata banerjee and mk stalin.
oneplus nord ce 5g is equipped with a 4,500 mah battery that comes with support for 30t plus ultra-fast warp charge technology.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersnew delhi [india], june 11 (ani): the southwest monsoon advanced further into parts of north arabian sea, gujarat, madhya pradesh and chhattisgarh, the india meteorological department (imd) said on friday.
the senior citizen has claimed that metal objects are easily getting stuck on his body parts after taking the second dose of the covid vaccine.
the study further found that the desirable herd immunity which can break the chain of virus, can only be achieved by mass vaccination and not through the natural course of transmission of infection.
der findes alternativer til at betale negative renter.
vi guider dig til tre investeringsmuligheder, så du kan investere dig fra negative renter.
pakistan may end up enjoying 'strategic space' in afghanistan — a potential return to the pre-9/11 situation.
despite new laws to combat the problem, a rape is reported every 15 minutes, leaving victims and families crying out for justice an activist holds a cut-out of india's prime minister, narendra modi, at a protest over another gang-rape and murder of a young woman in uttar pradesh state last year.
photograph: indranil mukherjee/afp/getty it was a historic day for women in india.
mamata banerjee and her party won a spectacular election victory in west bengal, defeating the hindu nationalist bharatimumbai (maharashtra) [india], june 10 (ani): maharashtra government on thursday announced compensation of 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased in the collapse of a residential structure in new collector compound, malad west of mumbai late on wednesday night.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore employers here have no legal power to force staff members to disclose their covid-19 vaccination status or demand that they get inoculated.
experts and employers noted that while vaccination is strongly encouraged in singapore, it remains voluntary, although there are several ways people can be encouraged to get a jab.
these will come more into focus as singapore begins rolling out covid-19 vaccinations to the wider population, with bookings open to singaporeans aged 12 to 39 from friday (june 11).
singapore human resources institute (shri) president low peck kem told the straits times that unless there is a business need, employers should not compel staff to disclose if they have had a jab or take punitive action against those who do not get inoculated or refuse to update their vaccination status.
"even if there is a strong business need, such as needing to know in order to determine if the employee can travel for business or to deploy to higher-risk front-line facing roles, do explain clearly why the company needs to know the status and generally, most employees will comply," she said.
institute for human resource professionals (ihrp) chief executive mayank parekh said that bosses should not use non-vaccination as a reason to terminate employment as there could be medical reasons for why a staff member did not get a shot.
mr tan wei ming, senior associate at law firm cms holborn asia, said that if employers want to keep records on vaccinated employees that contain personal data such as names, they must do so in accordance with the personal data protection act and other applicable data protection laws.
"for these reasons, companies in singapore are unlikely to make their employees declare their vaccination status at this juncture," he added.
wongpartnership joint head of employment practice jenny tsin said staff members should not face discrimination arising from their vaccination status, given that its voluntary.
however, there could be circumstances that warrant a different approach, such as for jobs involving higher risk of exposure to covid-19, she added.
in this instance, it could be more justified to limit return to the workplace to only vaccinated employees.
investment bank goldman sachs recently ordered its employees in the united states to report their covid-19 vaccination status as part of their plans to return to the office, afp reported on thursday.
st understands that goldman sachs is not requiring staff here to report their vaccination status, and that most are still working from home.
while professional services firm ey strongly encourages its eligible staff to get vaccinated, it does not require them to declare their status given that immunisation is not mandatory, said the singapore and brunei managing partner max loh.
uob human resources head dean tong said the bank has been encouraging staff in critical roles to get vaccinated since the government announced its roll-out to essential workers in the financial sector in march.
st understands that uob does not track the vaccination status of employees.
meanwhile, sembcorp industries has introduced an app that provides voluntary updates on a person's vaccination status.
the app, which was developed in-house, is also used to obtain online approval for essential facility visits.
an amazon spokesman said that the company's employees and associates are generally not required to declare their vaccination status, except for staff members who are travelling to singapore from overseas.
the firm also provides a cash benefit to front-line employees and associates who are paid by the hour when they get their vaccination off-site.
shri's ms low and mr parekh from ihrp said employers can encourage immunisation by communicating the benefits to their staff as well as incentivising vaccination through means such as time off after getting the jabs and giving workers a care package.
mr samir bedi, asean workforce advisory leader at ey, noted that it would not be surprising to see employers including vaccination as a pre-requisite in job descriptions in future, particularly for front-line positions that require face-to-face interactions.
"this not only protects employees and their families, but also ensures the public's safety.
employees who travel for work may also need to comply with pre-travel vaccination travel regulations," he said.
but companies must remain inclusive and consider the needs of individuals who may not be able to get vaccinated due to health reasons, mr bedi said.
he added: "this requires employers to continue with precautionary safe workplace measures while ensuring equal career opportunities for all.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore a local company is being investigated for manufacturing surgical masks here without a licence, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
this is the first time a firm is suspected of that action.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent, with the masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
a total of 33 cartons, each containing about 2,500 masks, were seized.
under the health products act, firms are required to have a licence from hsa to manufacture surgical masks.
vision empire international was also suspected to have imported surgical masks from overseas before repackaging, rebranding and reselling them without having a licence to do so.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
they were sold on local e-commerce platforms for between $10 and $22 per box of 50 masks, according to preliminary investigations.
consumers who have made purchases are advised to stop using them immediately, hsa said.
it added that these listings have been removed with the assistance of the platform administrators, and vision empire international has been directed to recall the products.
investigations are ongoing, the authority said.
manufacturers and repackers of surgical masks are licensed by hsa to ensure good quality and safety for use.
in its release, the authority said surgical masks from unlicensed facilities have not been verified to meet the standards of quality, filtration capability and breathability.
[[nid:487670]]"sub-standard masks may not provide the desirable level of protection to the wearer," it added, noting that masks made, repackaged and/or stored in unsanitary conditions could be contaminated.
"wearing such masks may increase the users' risk of developing skin irritation, respiratory symptoms or infections," hsa said.
it will take strong enforcement action against those who illegally manufacture and/or supply masks.
those who do so could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for up to two years or fined up to $50,000, or both.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
michael packard, 56, was on his second dive of the day looking for lobsters in cape code, a peninsula in the us state of massachusetts, on the southeast coast.
his vessel "ja'n j" was sitting just off popular herring cove beach alongside a fleet of other boats fishing for striped bass.
the method behind commercial lobster diving is collecting lobsters from the sandy bottom.
and, 45ft (14 metres) deep, is where the father-of-two had his terrifying encounter with the humpback whale.
he told cape cod times: "all of a sudden, i felt this huge shove and the next thing i knew it was completely black.
"i could sense i was moving, and i could feel the whale squeezing with the muscles in his mouth. "
at first, mr packard thought he had been swallowed by a great white shark.
but he could not feel any teeth and did not notice any serious injuries.
it was then that he realised he was inside a whale.
he added: "i was completely inside; it was completely black.
i thought to myself, 'there's no way i'm getting out of here.
i'm done, i'm dead.
'"all i could think of was my boys — they're 12 and 15 years old.
"read more: dog killed by swan in violent attack at local park  according to mr packard's calculations, he spent 30 to 40 seconds inside the animal before it surfaced.
the diver said: "i saw light, and he started throwing his head side to side, and the next thing i knew i was outside (in the water).
"mr packard, who lives in welfleet, was taken to cape cod hospital in hyannis.
he was discharged on friday with what he described as "a lot of soft tissue damage" but no broken bones.
despite the scare, mr packard intends to return to work as soon as he recovers.
don't missnoise complaint silences church bells for first time in 110 years [update]uk weather: heatwave is forecast for weekend as euro 2020 kicks off [reveal]boris urged not to delay unlocking restrictions on june 21 [insight] see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
'genocide and crimes against humanity', erosion of 'democratic norms' cited by washington in call with beijing.
united states secretary of state antony blinken in a phone call with china's top diplomat again voiced us concerns about the "ongoing genocide and ethnic cleansing" against muslim uigurs in china's far western region of xinjiang and "the deterioration of democratic norms" under china's rule in hong kong.
secretary blinken spoke on friday with yang jiechi, the chinese communist party's top foreign affairs officer, to discuss a range of thorny issues confronting the two major powers including north korea's nuclear programme, a state department spokesman said.
blinken's comments to yang follows the release on june 10 of a report by amnesty international showing xinjiang has become a "dystopian hellscape" where uighurs and other predominantly muslim ethnic minorities face systematic and state-organised "mass internment and torture amounting to crimes against humanity".
blinken's conversation with yang further comes as challenges posed by china figure in discussions now under way among leaders of the group of seven industrialised democracies in the united kingdom and attended by president joe biden.
china has cracked down on pro-democracy advocates in hong kong, a former british colony returned to chinese rule in 1997 under an agreed principle of "one china, two systems" that was to have allowed continuing democratic freedoms in hong kong.
in addition to "the need for the united states and the prc to work together for the denuclearization of the korean peninsula," blinken and yang discussed other "shared global challenges" including iran, myanmar and the climate crisis, state department spokesman ned price said in a statement.
blinken called for more "cooperation and transparency" from chinese authorities in the world health organization's continuing inquiries into the origin of the covid-19 virus.
on the call, yang expressed to blinken beijing's serious concern that some people in the us were spreading the "absurd story" about the coronavirus escaping from a wuhan laboratory, chinese state media said.
beijing firmly opposed what yang called "abominable actions" over the pandemic, which he said were being used to slander china, state broadcaster cctv said, according to the reuters news service.
the us's top diplomat called on beijing to "cease its pressure campaign against taiwan and peacefully resolve cross-strait issues", price said.
yang told blinken that washington should handle taiwan-related issues "carefully and appropriately," cctv reported.
washington should work with beijing to put ties "back on track," yang said, according to cctv.
the us and china have been engaged in an increasingly tense diplomatic exchange since blinken and yang met face-to-face in alaska in march.
at the time, the us expressed "deep concerns" about actions by china, and china pushed back as "firmly opposed to us interference in china's internal affairs".
bonnie glaser, an asia expert at the german marshall fund think-tank, told reuters that although the agenda included potential areas of cooperation, the conversation appeared dominated by contentious issues.
she said yang's call for washington to work with beijing to put ties "back on track" indicated that china was still putting the onus on the us for the problems in the relationship.
notwithstanding the diplomatic tensions, china's largest ride-hailing company, didi chuxing, filed on thursday for an initial public offering of stock on us financial markets in what is expected to be the world's biggest ipo this year, reuters reported.
the company is backed by asia's largest technology investment firms – softbank, alibaba and tencent.
sources familiar with the matter told reuters that it could raise around $10bn and seek a valuation of close to $100bn.
at that valuation, didi's listing would be the biggest chinese share offering in the us since alibaba raised $25bn in 2014. activists arrested and as many as 7,000 police to be deployed after annual vigil banned for a second year.
families fear that australia is being too cautious on issue because of china's economic might.
annual us human rights report takes china, russia, belarus to task over alleged rights abuses, cites yemen violations.
human rights watch is the latest to document policies of mass detention, torture and cultural persecution in xinjiang.
follow al jazeera english:
singapore — upset at a private hire car driver who sounded his horn and made a gesture, a man drove quickly to catch up and confront him.
marco paulo goncalves guimaraes, a 43-year-old portuguese, was jailed three weeks and fined $1,000 on thursday (10 june) after he pleaded guilty to one count of causing hurt to desmond wu weiming, and one count of not wearing a mask while arguing with wu.
guimaraes was also ordered to pay compensation of $122.
20 to the private hire car driver by end july.
a singapore permanent resident, guimaraes came to singapore in 2004 and founded football management international in 2010.  he began a career as a fifa licensed players' agent where he scouted for and helped to place promising players into european football clubs, according to his lawyer marshall lim from invictus law.
guimaraes was actively scouting for talent in malaysia and singapore to bring to portugal to experience football, but the covid-19 pandemic dealt a severe blow to his work, said lim.
he is struggling to manage the business and his club algarve clube de futbol while supporting his wife and his two daughters, lim said.
on 11 june last year, guimaraes was on his way to pick up one of his daughters from school when he got into the road rage incident.
his wife was beside him in the front passenger seat.
at about 1.
10pm, wu was driving along punggol drive, a two-lane road, when guimaraes overtook him.
guimaraes' car appeared to brake abruptly.
when wu passed by guimaraes' car, wu sounded his horn and gestured at him.
guimaraes drove quickly to catch up with wu and both cars stopped side-by-side at a loading bay at block 670a edgefield plains.
guimaraes alighted and approached wu's car while not wearing a mask.
singapore was in phase 1 of its reopening then and all were required to wear their masks in public spaces with some exceptions.
the portuguese then pushed the car door against wu, causing it to hit wu's right shin.
he then grabbed wu's right wrist and began arguing with him.
after wu emerged from his car, guimaraes pushed him while hurling profanities at him.
wu recorded guimaraes with his mobile phone, and the latter then wore a mask.
guimaraes then slapped wu on the side of his head and pushed his right arm.
he returned to his car and drove to a parking lot at a nearby loading bay, while wu called the police.
wu parked his car behind guimaraes' and both alighted, with guimaraes kicking wu on his left shin.
wu sought medical treatment at a hospital and was diagnosed with bruises and swelling over both shins, and over his left ear.
according to lim, guimaraes had been driving cautiously due to heavy traffic and had not been able to filter to the left lane as it was full of vehicles.
this was when wu had sounded his horn at guimaraes.
when guimaraes managed to filter left, wu "inexplicably sounded his vehicle horn at our client, despite our client having already gotten out of mr wu's way", said lim.
"our client instructs that as mr wu drove past, he raised his hand, and our client perceived that mr wu had pointed his middle finger at him as he drove past.
this was unwarranted conduct from mr wu, bearing in mind that our client had given way to mr wu, and did not respond to mr wu's sounding of his horn at our client as he cautiously navigated edgefield plains.
asking for two weeks' jail and a fine of $800, lim said, "our client therefore could not fathom what caused mr.  wu to act in such a rude manner.
"stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother singapore stories:validity of overseas malaysians' passports expiring in 2021 extended by 2 years for freetwo of four new covid cases in singapore are in communitypet shop manager who fought with sda fined, sda's case pendingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatibook en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenbeijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made ochina's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosouth korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderssecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
carbis bay, england: us president joe biden said on thursday (jun 10) that adonation of 500 million doses of the pfizer covid-19 vaccineto the world's poorest countries would supercharge the battle with the virus and comes with "no strings attached".
biden, speaking alongside pfizer chief executive albert bourla in the english seaside resort of carbis bay ahead of a g7 summit, thanked other leaders for recognising their responsibility to vaccinate the world.
"the united states is providing these half billion doses with no strings attached.
no strings attached," biden said.
"our vaccine donations don't include pressure for favours, or potential concessions.
we're doing this to save lives.
"biden, keen to burnish his multilateral credentials on his first foreign trip as leader, cast the donation as a bold move that showed america recognised its responsibility to the world and to its own citizens.
"america will be the arsenal of vaccines in our fight against covid-19, just as america was the arsenal of democracy during world war two," biden said.
the largest ever vaccine donation by a single country will cost the united states us$3.
5 billion but willspur further donations from other g7 leaders- including british prime minister boris johnson.
g7 leaders want to vaccinate the world by the end of 2022 to try to halt the covid-19 pandemic that has killed more than 3.
9 million people, devastated the global economy and upended the normal lives of billions of people.
vaccination efforts so far are heavily correlated with wealth: the united states, europe, israel and bahrain are far ahead of other countries.
a total of 2.
2 billion people have been vaccinated so far out of a world population of nearly 8 billion, based on johns hopkins university data.
'save lives'us drugmaker pfizer and its german partner biontech have agreed to supply the us with the vaccines, delivering 200 million doses in 2021 and 300 million doses in the first half of 2022. the shots, which will be produced at pfizer's us sites, will be supplied at a not-for-profit price.
around 100 countries will get the shots.
pfizer ceo bourla said the eyes of the world were on the leaders of rich nations to see if they would act to solve the covid-19 crisis and share with poorer nations.
"this announcement with the us government gets us closer to our goal and significantly enhances our ability to save even more lives across the globe," he said.
while such a large donation of vaccines was welcomed by many, there were immediately calls for the richest nations of the world to open up more of their giant hoards of vaccines.
anti-poverty campaign group oxfam called for more to be done to increase global production of vaccines.
"surely, these 500 million vaccine doses are welcome as they will help more than 250 million people, but that's still a drop in the bucket compared to the need across the world," said niko lusiani, oxfam america's vaccine lead.
"we need a transformation toward more distributed vaccine manufacturing so that qualified producers worldwide can produce billions more low-cost doses on their own terms, without intellectual property constraints," he said in a statement.
another issue, especially in some poor countries, is the infrastructure for transporting the vaccines which often have to be stored at very cold temperatures.
ip waiverbiden has also backed calls for awaiver of some vaccine intellectual property rightsbut there is no international consensus yet on how to proceed.
the new vaccine donations come on top of 80 million doses washington has already pledged to donate by the end of june.
there is also us$2 billion in funding earmarked for the covax programme led by the world health organization (who) and the global alliance for vaccines and immunization (gavi), the white house said.
gavi and the who welcomed the initiative.
washington is also taking steps to support local production of covid-19 vaccines in other countries, including through its quad initiative with japan, india and australia.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
it's a matter of great concern as cases of racial discrimination and intolerance continue to rise.
in another shocking incident, an indian-singaporean took to facebook to share how his chinese-singaporean neighbour misbehaved while he was praying.
this incident follows just days after a chinese man was caught on camera making derogatory remarks towards an interracial couple.
screengrab: facebookindian-singaporean, livanesh ramu, shared a video of the incident on facebook and described what transpired.
in the video– which has now been shared by 1.
7k users– he can be seen using a handheld prayer bell.
but just as he steps out for prayer, his chinese neighbour barges into the frame and disturbs ramu's prayer by loudly beating a dong.
in his post, ramu described, "like many other hindus, this has been a part of our family's 5-minute, twice a week prayer routine.
having lived in this home for more than 20 years we never had any issues.
i guess with covid we have a new norm.
"soon after posting the video, he received several supportive messages from singaporeans, most of whom lauded him for his calmness.
while others pointed that the lady was a minority in the largely racially equitable island nation.
screengrab: facebookone user wrote, "this is disrespectful and downright shameful on that lady.
and the look on her face!!!!
epic"another user wondered why people have become far less considerate today.
she questioned, "i have a neighbour like u also indian.
.
.
it's normal.
.
.
it's their ritual n religion.
.
not so loud they ring the bell.
is juz less than 8mins then they are done.
.
y can't the lady be more considerate?
"thankfully, the video managed to reach the police just in time, who intervened and are now working with ramu to sort the matter.
as he later added to his post, "the singapore police force has reached out to us.
we are coordinating with them at the moment.
"while this incident has shed light on the menace of racism in singapore, it is not the reality of this progressive island nation.
most singaporeans, especially young parents, are raising their children to become more educated on such subjects and of course, open to all belief systems and cultures.
as roshni mahtani cheung, group ceo & founder, theasianparent, puts it, "i am not sure what triggered the woman to act out in such a manner – but as a country, we singaporeans need to be more tolerant and not get so agitated by small things.
""for those of us who are parents, we need to check our own behaviour.
ask ourselves if we are doing enough to expose our child to different cultures, religions and belief systems," adds the young mum.
not just local singaporeans, but expats in singapore also believe that this is a one off incident and doesn't reflect singapore's inclusivity.
"i have never faced any such issues.
in fact, i have always been welcomed and felt safe being in singapore.
the current issues are one of cases.
it doesn't represent the community here and i am fortunate to be allowed to stay in this country with my family," shared vineeth kallarakkal, head of marketing, theasianparent.
kallarakkal has been living in singapore for eight years now and is originally from india.
although this unfortunate incident has highlighted the need for more awareness, we cannot overlook the promptness of singapore police force that further proves the sanctity of racism laws in singapore.
from the penal code to the protection from harassment act, singapore has a range of laws to guard citizens against racism.
in fact, these laws can also be invoked even if there was no intention to hurt racial or religious feelings.
the laws apply to comments made online and also when a non-verbal gesture was made in public.
according to the straits times report, lawyers note that other than racial enmity laws, authorities can investigate such actions under the protection from harassment act and the sedition act.
there are also other provisions in the penal code which may apply, such as public nuisance.
these rules are proof that those who harass fellow citizens not only take the law into their own hands but also instil fear.
so the best possible solution to this issue is that we must teach ourselves and our future generations to spread love and not hatred.
let's make this a safer place for everybody and continue to live in harmony.
racism in singapore: interracial couple abused by chinese singaporean man, police probe onteach your kids to say no to racism – bring them up colour blind!the post watch video: chinese woman misbehaves with indian singaporean while he prays appeared first on theasianparent your guide to pregnancy, baby & raising kids.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringena hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatidemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hoen elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
turns out the comic books were wrong.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singaporeans studying in australian institutions are looking forward to a proposed travel bubble between the two countries, as they may finally be able to return to their campuses there or spend holidays with their families here.
prime minister lee hsien loong and his australian counterpart scott morrison said on thursday that the two countries are working towards an air travel bubble.
they hoped singapore students in australia, whose studies have been disrupted by the covid-19 travel restrictions, would be the first to get the opportunity to travel under the arrangement.
all six students the straits times spoke to on friday (june 11) expressed optimism about the travel bubble.
for first-year students like mr chris gan, who is doing his bachelor's degree in politics, philosophy and economics at the australian national university, it will be his first chance to set foot on its campus.
the 21-year-old said he was not too concerned that the travel bubble may be one-way.
"i am confident singaporeans will be able to travel to australia too.
"mr sun yuchen, 23, a third-year student at the university of melbourne who is currently on a year's leave of absence, is looking forward to returning to campus.
"i see a chance for me to return to australia to complete my studies and gain experience by using actual facilities the school provides," he said.
singaporeans who are currently in australia, such as university of new south wales student joseph tan, look forward to reuniting with family here.
the 23-year-old, who has been in australia since february last year, said he had been unable to return home, as his degree in aviation requires him to attend flying lessons there.
he added: "the travel bubble between singapore and australia comes as a relief to me as i have the opportunity to finally return home and see my family after being away for so long.
even if i can only return for a few days, it is comforting to return home again.
"students who returned to singapore when the covid-19 pandemic worsened said the past year had been tough for them.
psychology student audrey chan, 23, is a final-year student at the university of queensland.
she has been continuing her classes remotely since returning to singapore in march last year.
she said: "my singaporean and malaysian peers agree that we often feel like an outsider or a cctv spying on the class via zoom, and this makes class participation painfully awkward and hard for us.
some of us are stressed out, as we find it hard to keep up with the class, especially when technology fails us.
"university of adelaide student shalynn tsai, 21, who is doing her bachelor's degree in dental surgery, had to take leave of absence because she was unable to return to campus by mid-september last year.
"it has been very stressful not knowing when or whether we can even continue with our degree courses," she said.
"with the travel bubble, we can finally go back and resume our studies.
"while the students understand that they may need to undergo pre-departure and arrival tests for the coronavirus, they hoped they would not have to incur hefty charges and would not have to be quarantined if already vaccinated.
mr ryan soh, 21, will be commencing his communication studies at queensland university of technology later this month.
"i hope that there will be no need for a quarantine once vaccination has been done and the covid-19 test comes back negative.
kind of like what's going on between new zealand and australia," he said.
"nevertheless, if there is a need for quarantine, then hopefully it would be more accessible or cheaper for students, as some of us may not be able to afford it.
"mr tan felt the same.
"hopefully it will not be too expensive and there will not be a need to self-quarantine for too long once i arrive at either destination.
i understand the need for the covid-19 tests to ensure there are no imported cases and hope that both countries can maintain the safety of not only its residents but those travelling as well," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the law came into effect on thursday, adding to china's toolbox as it builds its defences against us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
the move also came just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest -- allowing beijing to now hit back at those who formulate or comply with foreign sanctions.
"european companies in china are shocked by the lack of transparency and speed of this process," european chamber president joerg wuttke told afp, referring to the passing of the new law.
with the fresh rules prohibiting organisations from implementing what beijing deems discriminatory and restrictive measures, "foreign firms remain very much stuck between a rock and a hard place," he said.
american chamber of commerce chairman greg gilligan cautioned that the new law "presents potentially irreconcilable compliance problems for foreign companies".
rushing through a new law without an opportunity for public comment severely jeopardises foreign investor confidence in china's legal system as well, he added.
but chinese foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin told a regular press briefing on friday he did not see a definite link between the new law and foreign investment.
"if anything, the enactment of the anti-foreign sanctions law provides a predictable legal environment.
.
.
for foreign companies operating in china," he said.
wuttke, however, warned that the action was not conducive to attracting investment, or in reassuring companies that "already feel they may be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess".
"there is a real concern that this will further destabilise eu-china relations," he said.
in the european chamber's latest business confidence survey released this week, 41 per cent of respondents said china's business environment had become more politicised last year.
most reported they expect the situation to remain the same or deteriorate over the coming year.
bys-ehl/jfxagnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,lige nu kan du prøve aktiviva med en introrabat på 50% på første pakke, hvis du tilmelder dig abonnementsordningen – efterfølgende sparer du 20%a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatisingapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringena top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hobedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
concerns surrounding china's "unfair and market-distorting industrial policies" and the "need to level the playing field" for american companies in the country were raised during thursday's latest round of trade talks, according to the us department of commerce.
china confirmed commerce minister wang wentao spoke with his american counterpart gina raimondo on thursday, with the talks described as a "candid and pragmatic exchange of views".
china's statement also said the talks took place at theturns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a wider range of sports activities will be allowed in the coming weeks when singapore enters phase three (heightened alert) on monday (june 14).
selected organised outdoor programmes with a cap of five people up from two may resume, while from june 21, sport competitions and tournaments without spectators will be given the green light as long as they do not exceed 50 persons in each facility.
these were among the latest updates in sport singapore's (sportsg) advisory issued on friday.
the rules for outdoor training for youth and children aged 18 and under will be eased progressively.
for the first week, low- and high-intensity activities will be kept to a maximum of five.
from june 21, this will increase to 30 with multiple groups of five.
for adults, the five-person cap for high-intensity activities will be relaxed from june 21 as well.
swimfast aquatic group founder david lim welcomed the changes.
his academy has been operating at 20 per cent for the past month during the heightened measures for phase 2. high-intensity outdoor activities such as swimming, where masks have to be removed, were restricted to two people and no multiple groups of two are allowed.
this includes the coach or instructor.
as such, lim had to suspend the academy's learn-to-swim sessions since the start of the current heightened phase began on may 16 and continued only his competitive swimming sessions.
he said: "it's a relief, we can legitimately carry on the classes.
now, we're only doing competitive swimming, so it's no different.
we're just like a pool operator.
swimmers book a lane and swim by themselves.
"now we don't have to juggle such small numbers.
we can carry out lessons with four swimmers to one coach.
that ratio is a huge difference to us because when it's one-to-one, we're definitely losing money.
"the multi-ministry task force on thursday had indicated that mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
national agency sportsg's latest update permitting sports competitions as long as different sessions are adequately separated within a day or across multiple days to avoid congregation was welcomed by organisers like lld sports development and management founder lyn yeo.
her company is hoping to get approval for the cartimes singapore junior development tour championship.
the golf event at laguna national was postponed from its original may 31-june 2 date.
she said: "june is typically the busiest tournament season for junior golfers and we are hoping with great excitement that we are able to resume.
"some measures that organisers plan to have in place include temperature screening and safe entry protocols, as well as restricting each flight to two buggies, which have been installed with a full partition.
players and officials will also be required to wear masks throughout their rounds.
for gyms and fitness studios, many of whom are closed due to current restrictions, they will be allowed to restart operations from june 21. staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing, which is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities.
this will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
sportsg also announced that the occupancy limit for sport and recreational facilities will be increased to one person per 10 sq m from one person per 16 sq m, capped at 50 people.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: a judge has granted a bid by a former bus driver to have his case against sbs transit for allegedly unfair work practices – including long work hours and unpaid overtime – heard in the high court.
justice audrey lim said in a written judgment released on thursday (jun 10) that the case raises important questions of law to warrant the move to the higher court from the magistrate's courts.
although the case was mounted by one bus driver, mr chua qwong meng, another 12 drivers are linked to it.
mr chua claims that about s$720,000 is involved in the allegations of all 13 suits, which include unpaid overtime fees and contentions on the maximum consecutive number of work days allowed.
the case affects not only the bus driver in the case but a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector, said the judge.
lawyer m ravi represented mr chua and the other 12 bus drivers, while sbs transit was represented by a team of lawyers led by senior counsel davinder singh.
mr chua worked for sbs transit from april 2017 to early 2020.  he commenced his suit against the company for breaches of contract and provisions of the employment act on sep 20, 2019. four other bus drivers commenced similar proceedings in the magistrates' courts that same day, and another eight drivers launched their own suits subsequently.
in total, 13 bus drivers are suing sbs transit over what the judge said are essentially the same matters pertaining to their employment.
they are: mr chua, mr lee chye chong, mr chian poh seng, mr fung chean seng, mr tan ting hock robin, mr thiyagu balan, mr gan kim kiam, mr huzainal hussein, mr lim you onn, mr chiew yi yee, mr meerah mohamed halideen, mr razak hasim and mr mohamad sani din.
it was agreed on mar 4 last year that mr chua's case would be heard as a test case, with the other 12 suits held in abeyance pending the determination of his case.
mr chua's claimsmr chua claims that sbs transit breached the employment act by not giving him a rest day per week.
its employment practices were also allegedly in breach of the manpower ministry's regulated pay rate that an employer is expected to pay for work done during a rest day.
mr chua also claims that he was underpaid for overtime work, and that the company did not pay him the statutorily prescribed rate for working on a rest day.
as a result, he worked in excess of the prescribed work hours in a day or week.
he also claims that the company did not pay him an agreed allowance for work done on the night shift.
sbs transit denies the claims and asserts that it has complied with contractual obligations and laws, rules or regulations on working hours, overtime pay and rest days.
it claims that it compensated mr chua in compliance with his employment contract, which started in 2017, as well as with the law and the manpower ministry's guidelines.
mr ravi's arguments, and mr davinder singh'smr ravi argued for the case to be transferred to the high court as it involves an important question of law and is a test case.
he said the questions of law which include how "rest days" are interpreted and whether an employee can work for 12 consecutive days over a 14-day period will impact not only the plaintiffs but the whole of the employment sector in singapore.
the 13 suits amount to s$720,000, which is beyond the district court's limit, he said.
mr singh objected to having the case heard in the high court, claiming abuse of court process and saying there is no important question of law.
he said there is nothing to suggest that the issues raise difficult or complex issues.
the state courts regularly deal with disputes involving the interpretation of employment agreements and the provisions of the employment act, he added.
he said mr chua has not shown credible evidence that damages in his suit would exceed s$250,000, the jurisdictional limit of the district court.
justice lim said an important question of law need not necessarily be a complex or difficult one, and that just because the state courts deal with employment disputes does not mean there may not be important questions of law in the provisions of the employment act.
she found that the questions of law in this case are important ones which affect a larger class of employees, pointing to how 12 other drivers filed similar suits.
"the employment act provides for mandated rest days and limits to hours of work (among other matters) to protect the rights of employees," she said.
"the question of whether this can be 'overridden' in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services, which on its face may not look like a difficult question, is important as it affects a larger population of workers in general," the judge said.
the case would have potential ramifications on how such contracts are structured in terms of granting days off, computing overtime pay and determining work hours, she added.
in a statement, sbs transit said it respects justice lim's decision and "will continue to vigorously contest the bus captains' claims in the high court".
the case will be heard at a later date.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a 4-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his 3-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000) is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020 was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have 3 or 4 room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a 2-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his 4-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
china's top legislative body has passed an anti-sanctions law , providing legal backing for sweeping retaliation against any individuals, their families and organisations responsible for imposing foreign sanctions against the country.
the legislation was passed on thursday at the closing session of the national people's congress (npc) standing committee, and was effective the same day.
tam yiu chung, hong kong's sole delegate to the npc standing committee, said that under the new law, the state council and its agencies would be responsible for coordinating retaliatory measures.
"these measures can be applied to organisations and individuals, as well as extended to the individuals' spouses, relatives and the organisations that they belong to," he said.
[embed]https://youtu.
be/z5nydpsky0a[/embed]tam said that under article 6 of the new law, beijing's retaliatory measures could include denial of visa applications or entry into china.
in the case of visa holders, authorities could declare their document invalid and deport them.
individuals' property or assets could be frozen or seized, and institutions could be restricted from conducting transactions with individuals or organisations targeted, he said.
the law also specified that no one in the country could help other countries implement measures against china, and people must instead help beijing's authorities to execute retaliatory measures.
individuals and organisations affected by sanctions could make claims in mainland courts, tam said.
state media said the move was intended to provide a legal basis for china to respond to sanctions.
china has issued counter-sanctions in response to sanctions against it from the united states, the european union, britain and canada over beijing's political crackdown in hong kong and treatment of ethnic minority groups in xinjiang .
after the law was passed, li zhanshu, head of the npc standing committee, said : "china will not give up its legitimate interest.
and no one should have any illusion of letting china swallow the bitter fruit that harms our own interests.
"chinese foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin said the passage of the new law showed china's determination to protect its sovereignty and core interests, and would not affect its relations with other countries.
[[nid:495641]]the anti-sanctions law was announced on monday night by state media and underwent a second reading but skipped a third, in the same way the national security law for hong kong went through the legislative process.
the new law is the strongest tool so far for china to respond to foreign sanctions, after the ministry of commerce in january issued a "blocking statute" requiring chinese companies to report foreign restrictions on economic or trade activities.
it had last september unveiled an unreliable entity list for foreign businesses.
washington has imposed a number of sanctions on china over its policies in hong kong and xinjiang, including targeting hong kong's leader carrie lam cheng yuet ngor and xinjiang 's communist party chief chen quanguo, as well as other senior mainland and hong kong officials and the 14 vice-chairpersons of the npc.
canada, britain and the european union also imposed sanctions on china.
tian feilong, an associate professor at beihang university's law school, has been involved in the consultations over the new legislation.
he said the draft of the law was first read in april, after the us senate committee on foreign relations backed an act to counter competition from china.
he said discussion about the law started last year when donald trump was still us president, but china was waiting to see how trump's successor, joe biden , would approach relations with china.
"the central leadership was already considering it last year, and the academic community has made suggestions," he said.
"the timing is based on biden's china policies.
"[embed]https://youtu.
be/ufqdggczq9c[/embed]tam said it was not specified in the legislation whether the new law would apply to hong kong and macau through local legislation.
"for a mainland law to apply in hong kong, it needs to be inserted into annex iii of the basic law .
.
.
but the new law did not mention how the law would be applied outside the mainland," he said.
"i would not say that it could not be applied in hong kong either.
probably the mainland authorities need more time to study its application.
"[[nid:518182]]tam, who is also sanctioned by the us for the enactment of the national security law in hong kong, which critics say has undermined the city's autonomy, said he supported the new law but had no plan to invoke any provision in it himself.
"i have not yet considered how this law will help me," he said.
"i just think that from the macro level, it is good to have this law so that it's not just individual agencies or the central government [making] retaliatory measures, but the responsibility of the state council as a whole.
"i support this law because as the chinese saying goes, 'offend no one if none offends you, but retaliate if you are under attack.
'"there have been concerns among foreign companies over the lack of transparency around the legislative process and the potential impact on businesses in china and hong kong, which analysts say will need to be wary of being linked to foreign entities under chinese sanctions.
greg gilligan, chairman of the american chamber of commerce in china, said it was difficult to comment on the law until details were available.
"however, where there is any disagreement across borders, governments need to come together to reconcile this in a way that allows businesses to remain legally compliant within the jurisdictions in which they operate," he said.
this article was first published in south china morning post.
new delhi: india on saturday (jun 12) reported 84,332 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 case load now stands at 29.
4 million, while total fatalities are at 367,081, data.
india added 4,002 deaths overnight.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, but the discovery ofseveral thousand unreported deaths in the state of biharhas raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
source: nurul fatimah iskandar (@_new_rule_) / instagramon the heels of the suspension of the ngee ann polytechnic lecturer who was caught on video making racist remarks to an interracial couple from his teaching duties, a former student of his took to social media to share her own experience of being subject to islamophobic remarks from him in front of a class.
ms nurul fatimah binti iskandar, who was a student of mr tan boon lee for an object oriented programming module in 2017, said in an instagram post on wednesday (9 june) that the lecturer had "used our class period to have a full-on discourse about islam".
"i was the only muslim in class.
he opened websites on the projector, pointing out things he didn't agree with about the quran and prophet muhammad s. a. w to the class," she said.
based on ms nurul's record of an instagram story posted on 28 july 2017, the date of the incident, among the comments mr tan had reportedly made were "only animals will treat their children like how allah does to his people" and "what type of father tells you to worship him five times a day and threatens to send you to hell if you don't?".
such remarks, she said, were merely "the tip of the iceberg".
to worsen matters, mr tan had singled out ms nurul — who was sitting in the front of the class — and asked her if she agreed with him.
"i could barely open my mouth amidst his continuous sweeping statements.
i was barely 17, fresh out of 10 years of madrasah trying to assimilate into the new secular environment," she lamented.
the situation had "escalated so badly" that ms nurul ended up sitting outside on the floor of the corridor with her classmate, merick while waiting for his "unsettling speech" to end.
merick had initiated the walk-out, according to ms nurul.
ms nurul noted that she made a complaint regarding the incident with mr tan, but no action was taken.
touching on why she went public with her story after mr tan's identity was revealed in the recent viral case, ms nurul said that she "can only imagine how many more times he had been racist and islamophobic in the institution of education over the years".
"after his suspension is over, he might return to the classrooms.
he should not be allowed back," she stressed.
"a racist islamophobe has no place educating our youths.
"particularly taking into consideration mr tan's position as a senior lecturer, it is crucial that such instances of bigotry are thwarted from the start to prevent "strife, prejudice, and racism" resulting from the spread of "sweeping misconceptions" about a particular faith, said ms nurul.
"my ex-classmates did their best to help me find evidence.
more people are coming out to testify.
more people are showing support.
we may still be far from utopia but the fact people are thinking, trying and taking action means we are definitely on the right path," she concluded.
a post shared by nurul fatimah binti iskandar (@_new_rule_)in the recent viral video, mr tan had publicly accused mr dave parkash of "preying on chinese girls" while the latter was on a night out with his girlfriend.
mr dave clarified that he is half-indian and half-filipino, while his girlfriend — who recorded the incident — is half-chinese and half-thai.
undeterred by mr dave's reply, the man continued his verbal abuse against mr dave, saying: "i got nothing against you staying in singapore.
""the only thing is you are preying on chinese girl, i tell you the chinese won't like it," while admitting that he himself is "racist".
the man also accused mr dave's girlfriend of "disgracing me", saying that the interracial couple should date people of their own race instead.
"you don't see a chinese guy preying on an indian girl," he further said to mr dave.
mr tan teaches at np's school of engineering.
he appears to have been awarded the long service medal in 2019 under the annual national day awards, as listed on prime minister's office website.
an np spokesperson told channel news asia on monday that the polytechnic is aware of the video and has suspended him from teaching duties.
"we regret that the individual in question is a member of our staff," said the spokesperson.
they added that the polytechnic takes "a very serious view" of the matter, as the remarks are "highly offensive, disrespectful and go against our staff code of conduct and values as a community".
"we are investigating this matter internally, including considering the appropriate disciplinary action to be taken.
meanwhile, the staff in question has been suspended from his teaching duties," the spokesperson added.
the incident is currently under police investigations.
the police confirmed on sunday that reports had been lodged and that a 60-year-old man was assisting with investigations into the incident.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing (reuters) china's government said on friday (june 11) it welcomed taiwanese to come and get vaccinated against covid-19.
it also called on taiwan to remove obstacles and allow its people to receive chinese vaccines which it says are highly effective.
china claims democratically ruled taiwan as its own territory and has repeatedly offered to send vaccines to the island, which is battling a spike in domestic infections but has expressed concern about the safety of chinese shots and has not cleared them for use.
china's taiwan affairs office said in a statement that two chinese-made vaccines had been granted emergency use authorisation by the world health organisation and its shots were in use or approved by more than 90 countries, showing their safety and efficacy.
taiwan people can come to china to get vaccinated against covid-19, provided they strictly comply with china's pandemic control measures, the office said.
it urged taiwan's government to "quickly remove artificial obstacles for mainland vaccines being sent to taiwan and allow the broad mass of taiwan compatriots to receive the safe and highly effective mainland vaccines".
about 62,000 taiwanese had been vaccinated in china as of may 31, the office added, though many taiwanese live and work there already.
only 3 per cent of taiwan's 23.
5 million people have received at least one shot, though millions of doses are on order.
japan donated 1.
24 million astrazeneca shots last week and the united states has pledged 750,000 doses, which have yet to arrive.
still, china's offer is not likely to be attractive to many taiwanese.
a poll by taipei's national chengchi university last month showed that most people would not be willing to get a chinese vaccine.
a taiwan security official looking into chinese activities told reuters that the offer was another example of a beijing influence campaign to sway public opinion on the island.
"this could be attractive for some people, but the problem is not many people can afford the costs," the official said, pointing to the expense and weeks in quarantine needed to travel between taiwan and china.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
cleaners in singapore will see their salaries increase each year over six years from 2023, after the proposals made by the tripartite cluster for cleaners (tcc) on cleaning wage ladder were accepted by the government earlier on monday (7 june).
starting from 2023 to 2028, the base wages for cleaners who are singaporean and permanent residents will go up on a year-on-year basis.
under the progressive wage model (pwm), the increase will be for cleaners across all job levels and it will rise up to between s$1,570 and s$2,210 in 2023.  the amount will subsequently increase by at least s$170 annually until 2028. for example, a full-time general or indoor cleaner will be entitled for a monthly wage of s$1,570 in july 2023.  this means the worker gets a pay hike of s$258, which is nearly 20 percent increase from the recommended salary of s$1,312 in 2022. on the other hand, the recommended annual increments for pwm from 1 july 2020 to 30 june 2023 was 3 percent a year.
the basic salary of cleaners has gradually went up over the years, and now it stands at s$1,236.
under the pwm, it is expected to go up to s$1,274 in july this year and to s$1,312 in july 2022. based on this new wage adjustments, workers in different categories like restroom cleaners and healthcare cleaners will be paid at least s$1,795 yearly.
higher-skilled employees such as supervisors and mechanical drivers will be given at least s$2,210.
it is said that this new system will benefit about 40,000 resident cleaners hired by more than 1,500 cleaning businesses.
"this is a timely and necessary review to recognise the importance and higher value of work shouldered by our cleaners, particularly during the covid-19 pandemic," said tcc and the national trades union congress (ntuc) in a joint media statement on monday.
the pwm is created to raise the wages of lower-wage workers by upgrading their skills and increasing their productivity, and it has been a licensing condition for cleaning companies since 2014. according to ntuc, a survey conducted in 2020 found that almost all respondents pointed out that the job of cleaners has become more important, and 95 percent expressed that they should be paid higher.
this is also the first wage review that takes reference from the tripartite workgroup on lower-wage workers' objective to ensure that wage growth is "ambitious enough to close the gap with workers earning median wages".
"in this pandemic, most of our workers, or cleaners are out there on the frontline .
.
.
we really need to show a commitment and our gratitude for what they've done, keeping singapore safe," said member of parliament mohd fahmi aliman (pap-marine parade).
he added, "i strongly urge all stakeholders to play a part in ensuring that our essential services workers in the environmental service industry can work with dignity.
"on monday, it was also announced that training guidelines for cleaners to get at least two workforce skills qualification (wsq) certificates in environmental cleaning modules or the equivalent have to be fulfilled by december 2022.
"this will help cleaners ensure their personal safety when carrying out cleaning tasks, especially with the increased cleaning demands and standards brought on by covid-19," said tcc and ntuc.
after 2025, the number of wsq that general cleaners are required to complete will be increased to three.
as for those in higher job roles, they must complete four modules.
chairman of the tcc and ntuc assistant director-general zainal sapari noted that the proposed wage ladders was made after extensive discussion and consultations with industry stakeholders.
besides justifying the value of the work cleaners do, the "aggressive wage increase" also tries and hopes to narrow the gap between their wages and the salaries of other workers, said mr zainal.
as for whether there's a target percentage of the media salary that cleaners' pay should eventually be pegged to, mr zainal asserted that it is "premature", but noted that the goal is for the annual wage increase to be higher than the median annual increase so the salary gap can be narrowed.
additionally, mr zainal also said that the wage increase is done to also attract the younger generation into the industry.
"we want to attract a younger workforce into this industry.
we want this to be a possible career that they can consider, compared to going into the gig economy," he noted.
president of the environment management association of singapore tony chooi pointed out that he hopes the people of singapore would not pick a job as a cleaner as their "last resort".
"we are trying all ways to see how we are able to build the industry into something that is more attractive," he said.
when asked if the higher salaries will cause cleaning companies to hire more foreigners instead, mr zainal said that this should not happen as the sector is regulated by the dependency ratio ceiling which is basically a quota for hiring singaporean workers, channel news asia (cna) said.
upon reading this news, netizens commented in the facebook page of channel news asia (cna) asking why is the wage increase not happening now, but only in 2023.  they said that this salary increment is "long overdue" and it should be implemented now so cleaners don't suffer more from the current "below sustainable income".
others slammed the authorities as they noted that the gradual salary hike is still lower than other developed nations like japan.
one user even noted that the wages of cleaners in european countries, the us and taiwan are higher than white-collar managers.
separately, a number of online users called for the government to implement a "minimum wage" for all low-skilled jobs.
they said this is so the workers are not cheated, be given basic benefits like medical subsidies and more.
a couple of them asserted that the pwm should also be applied to other industries as many employers have been underpaying their staff.
one user noted that by increasing salaries of singaporeans and permanent residents in other sectors, it will "(debunk) the myth typically coined that local can't work tough jobs".
responding to the authorities point that they hope an increased salary for cleaners will attract the youngsters into the industry, netizens asked if politicians will allow their kids to be a cleaner in the first place.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: while the announcement of an impending easing of pandemic curbs brought relief to some business sectors, several players in the food and beverage industry expressed disappointment at having to wait a little longer.
the covid-19 multi-ministry task forceannounced on thursday (jun 10) that singapore will exit the current phase 2 (heightened alert) measures in two stages.
some activities including facials and saunas will be allowed to resume from jun 14, while others such as dining-in at f&b establishments will only start from jun 21, provided the covid-19 situation remains under control.
ms hazel chua, a supervisor at birdie num num gastrobar, told cna that after thursday's announcement, the eatery had to cancel and reschedule customers' reservations.
many had indicated that they would visit the restaurant on the day of their original booking to do takeaways instead.
a few regulars had also taken the initiative to reschedule their reservations after learning about the phased reopening, she added.
"maybe because we half-expected it already, we didn't feel too much of a shock.
just told ourselves to take it easy, and (it is) just another week or so," she said.
ms chua estimates that business has dropped about 80 to 90 per cent in the past month.
"we serve our own food, but there are a lot of people who come here and they drink beer .
.
.
so i think they come here, mostly a lot for the environment as well.
although this time we adapted to it, we did takeaway for draft beers, we still saw the decline in our revenue for sure.
"for the owner of french restaurant the masses, there was a bit of "sadness" when he found out that dining-in may only begin on jun 21.
"but at the end of the day, i believe we have already pulled through that so-called one month," said mr dylan ong.
"i think waiting on another week more, mainly it's just to be sure.
"the restaurant had been working with the expectation that dining-in would resume on jun 14. f&b operators continuing to "haemorrhage"in a statement released on facebook on thursday, the restaurant association of singapore's president andrew kwan said that he was "disappointed" that the restrictions for dining-in would not be lifted from jun 14 "as was keenly hoped for".
"our f&b operators are continuing to haemorrhage with each extended day of 'no dine-in'.
members shared that the weekly burn rates to cover manpower and rentals alone range from a few thousand to over half a million dollars," mr kwan said.
"every additional day of low-to-no revenues will be the proverbial straw that breaks the camel's back.
"while mr kwan noted his appreciation for the government's extension of the jobs support scheme, which subsidies local workers' salaries, he urged other stakeholders like landlords to "step up" and "jointly share in the huge impact sustained by their tenants".
"without the ability to generate regular revenues, tenants are simply unable to pay full, unmitigated rentals," he said.
mr kwan also requested priority vaccinations for staff in the f&b sector who are in daily contact with the public.
"they are frontliners who are performing the mission critical role of feeding our population on a daily basis.
we must protect them as they go about carrying out their tasks faithfully.
""hawkers will be feeling quite disappointed"hawkers had also been hopeful that dining-in would resume on jun 14 and had been preparing for it, said chairman of the federation of merchants' associations singapore's (fmas) hawker division anthony low.
"from the past one month, quite a number of hawkers have been struggling.
so (with) the extension for one more week, i believe many of the hawkers will be feeling quite disappointed," he said.
while the government had provided support for rentals, table-cleaning and centralised dishwashing services for phase 2 (heightened alert), hawkers were unsure if this support would cover the additional week from jun 14.
"we will try to put up the request, because even (an extension) of seven days without the table-cleaning fee .
.
.
would be at least some relief for us," he said.
terry neo, founder of kopifellas, a chain of several food and drinks stalls, said that he had "mixed feelings" on the jun 21 reopening.
"we were definitely hopeful that we could start on the 14th, but at least on the other hand i'm glad that it's only just one week more," he said.
"we're just crossing our fingers because if things head south again then we probably will not even open up on the 21st.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
italy got their euro 2020 campaign off the mark with an impressive 3-0 win over turkey in the curtain-raiser for the postponed continental tournament in front of their home fans in rome on friday.
playing their first major tournament in five years after failing to qualify for the 2018 world cup, all the goals came in the second half in front of a stadio olimpico that was filled to a quarter of its capacity.
merih demiral's own goal put italy ahead before ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne netted for roberto mancini's side in the group a opener.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
"it was important to start well in rome and i think it's a satisfaction for the public and for italians," said mancini, whose side are now on a 28-match unbeaten run.
"there was a lot of help from the crowd.
it was a beautiful evening, i hope there are many others, but there are still six more for wembley.
""we were hoping for another result, but italy was dominant," said turkey coach senol gunes.
"the first goal changed things in the second half and we lost control of the game.
"there was a party atmosphere, with a spectacular sound and light show and firework display before kick-off for the opening of the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
berardi impresses -on the pitch, italy dominated early on with a three-man attack led by immobile, who plays for lazio.
the 31-year-old had several near misses in the first half, coming up against a solid turkey defence who held their own.
turkey could also thank goalkeeper ugurcan cakir for pulling off a big save on 23 minutes, tipping over italy captain giorgio chiellini's powerful goal-bound header off an insigne corner.
italy finally got on the scoreboard eight minutes after the break when the unfortunate demiral found himself in the path of a federico berardi cross for immobile, the juventus defender bundling the ball into his own net.
leonardo spinazzola had a chance for a second minutes later, with immobile sending the rebound wide.
immobile finally got his goal, his 14th for italy, and first in a major tournament, in the 66th minute, scoring from a rebound after cakir had saved from spinazzola.
and insigne curled in the third with 11 minutes to go.
sassuolo winger berardi had a role in all three goals, with italy scoring three for the first time in a european championship match.
all three italy forwards proved efficient on the night with a defence organised around juventus veterans chiellini and leonardo bonucci holding firm, securing a ninth straight clean sheet.
"we struggled at the start, we tried to accelerate but we hit a wall," said immobile.
"in the second half, they were a little more tired, they tried to rush us but the spaces opened up, and we saw our quality at that time.
"gianluigi donnarumma was largely unworried in the italy goal apart from a dangerous burak yilmaz cross after half an hour and a solo run by cengiz under after coming off the bench after the break.
"from a tactical point of view, italy was superior," said gunes.
"italy mastered the pitch and the ball.
they suffocated us with pressing and high pace, and they took advantage of playing at home.
"we have to react now.
"italy, looking for a second european title after 1968, next play switzerland in rome on wednesday, with 2008 semi-finalists turkey taking on wales in baku.
ea/jcchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
singapore: students from singapore could be given priority to travel to australia to pursue or complete their studies when the infrastructure for safe travel is in place, said australian prime minister scott morrison on thursday (jun 10).
speaking at a joint press conference with mr morrison following the in-person leaders' meeting that took place earlier on thursday, prime minister lee hsien loong said the two discussed how two-way travel between the countries can eventually resume in a safe and calibrated manner "when both sides are ready".
this can "start small" with an air travel bubble "when ready", said mr lee in his statement, which was broadcast live on his facebook page.
"we need to prepare the infrastructure and processes to get ready to do this.
it starts with mutual recognition of health and vaccination certificates, possibly in a digital form.
when all the preparations are ready, we can start small with an air travel bubble to build confidence on both sides," he added.
there is still some time before singapore and australia "reach that milestone", but the two countries will be "getting on with the job" of putting systems in place that will enable such a bubble to emerge between singapore and australia, similar to the one between australia and new zealand, said mr morrison.
"but in addition to that .
.
.
giving priority to students from singapore to be able to return to australia to complete their studies and to engage in their studies," he added.
"and for the students from singapore .
.
.
a first opportunity to see increased travel between australia and singapore realised, and for that to occur sooner rather than later.
"this is the sixth singapore-australia leaders' meeting.
mr lee and mr morrison held their previous meeting in march last year by video conference because of the covid-19 pandemic.
mr morrison's trip to singapore is the first official visit by a foreign leader since the start of the pandemic.
travel bubble conditionsresponding to a question following the prime ministers' statements, mr morrison said singapore is the first country outside of new zealand that australia wishes to engage in a travel bubble with.
adding that australia's system for digital vaccination certificates had just gone live, he said: "and we get it right in singapore, which we know we can do, because of the very sophisticated systems that singapore has.
""and with some encouragement from prime minister lee, we really do want to focus on those students coming .
.
.
as part of the exercise piloting how these systems can work most effectively when we get to the next phase .
.
.
but the timing of that is still somewhere away.
""quite a number" of students from singapore study in australia and some students came home due to the covid-19 pandemic, said mr lee.
these students in singapore are unable to go back to australia to resume their studies, and "there's urgency for them", he added.
"especially for those of them who have got clinical attachments or postings, and to be unable to take them up, it's very, very disruptive to their studies.
"mr lee said he also suggested to mr morrison that these students could be one way to test the safe travel systems and "get a pilot going so that we can widen the project", and later on implement a full travel bubble between singapore and australia.
"there's no timetable, but we hope it can be done as soon as possible.
"vaccination rates and covid-19 transmission rates will be considered when setting up the travel bubble, said mr lee during the press conference.
"i would say that in singapore, we are making good progress with our vaccination program.
in australia, they're also steadily vaccinating the population.
and i think once the majority of the population is vaccinated, it becomes much easier for us to contemplate these openings," he added.
the prevailing transmission rates will "certainly be a factor", said mr lee.
"what we want to do is to get the preconditions infrastructure ready, the vaccine recognition, what are the standards, what are the conditions.
then the actual decision to do it, that is a political decision.
but let's get everything teed up, so that we are in the position to make the political decision when we want to do so," he added.
neither singapore nor australia has identified a benchmark vaccination rate that would influence the decision on an air travel bubble, said mr morrison, adding that this would be dependent on the advice of the medical community.
defence and fintech partnershipsaddressing other areas of partnership between singapore and australia, mr lee noted that the two countries' treaty on military training and training area development came into force in december 2020.
"this was a milestone in our longstanding defence partnership," he added.
"singapore greatly appreciates australia's generous and sustained support for saf's training.
over many years, in many air bases and camps all over australia.
"the bilateral digital economy agreement between the two countries also came into force in 2020, said mr lee.
"this was the fruit of our forward looking, open and progressive attitudes towards trade and the future economy," he added.
building on the agreement, the two leaders will commence discussions to develop a fintech bridge between the two countries, said mr lee in his opening remarks.
singapore and australia are also exploring collaborations on low-emissions solutions to support climate change efforts, said mr lee.
"this is another key domestic priority for both of us, and it includes a public-private partnership on low emissions fuels and technologies for shipping and port operations, based at nanyang technological university's eco labs.
"we are also exploring a broader partnership on a green economy agreement.
this will facilitate trade and investment in environmentally sustainable goods and services, and strengthen environmental governance and our capacity to address climate change.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's movement control order, known as mco 3.
0, will be extended for another two weeks from jun 15 to jun 28. senior minister for defence ismail sabri yaakob announced in a statement on friday (jun 11) that the decision to extend the mco 3.
0 was made as daily case numbers still exceeded 5,000.
"the positive/negative list (permitted and prohibited activities) and standard operating procedures (sops) for every manufacturing, business and industrial activity still remains as announced before this," he said after attending a national security council meeting.
in may, a nationwide mco was re-imposed in malaysia amid a third wave of covid-19 cases.
known as mco 3.
0, all economic sectors were allowed to operate during the period but cross-district and interstate travel as well as social, sports and educational activities were prohibited.
stricter restrictions on the economic and social sectors were later announced on may 21 as community cases continued to rise.
the emergence of new variants have also delayed efforts to flatten the infection curve, the prime minister's office had said.
on may 28, prime minister muhyiddin yassin announced that the country would go intototal lockdownfor 14 days beginning jun 1, with only essential economic and service sectors allowed to carry on with their operations.
case number breached the 9,000-mark on may 29, before the lockdown measures brought daily infections down gradually.
on friday, a total of 6,846 cases were reported.
if the first phase of total lockdown could reduce the number of daily cases, then the country would ease into a four-week second phase, where more economic sectors would be allowed to reopen.
phase 3 would be similar to the movement control order (mco) that has been enforced in the country, where nearly all economic sectors are allowed to operate with strict sops.
the progression from one phase to another would be subject to the ministry of health's risk assessments.
as of friday, malaysia's national covid-19 tally stood at 646,411. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as singapore moves to phase three (heightened alert) from next monday (june 14), gyms and fitness studios will have to wait a little longer to find out if they can resume their indoor operations.
the multi-ministry task force (mtf) said on thursday that if the coronavirus situation remains under control in the coming weeks, gyms and fitness studios will be allowed to resume indoor mask-off sports activities with safe management measures in place from june 21. these measures include social distancing of at least 2m between individuals and at least 3m between groups of up to five people.
indoor and outdoor sports classes can also be carried out in multiple groups of five, with a cap of 30 people, including the instructor.
participants will be allowed to unmask if they are doing strenuous activities, but are encouraged to remain masked where possible.
under the current heightened measures for phase two, which took effect on may 16, only low-intensity physical activities such as yoga and pilates can take place at public and private gyms and fitness studios.
organised programmes and classes for low-intensity activities have been allowed to carry out their sessions only in groups of two.
singapore fitness alliance president sean tan said the latest announcement was a pleasant surprise for the industry as many had not expected activities that did not require the wearing of masks to resume so soon.
tan, who is also the director of true group, said: "in general the fitness industry has been elated with today's announcement as we will reopen on june 21 with a masks-off policy, and that is a huge relief.
"it underscores the government's belief that the fitness sector is an important one, and we can get back to getting people back in our gyms and studios to resume their fitness regimens.
"he added that the extension of the job support scheme (jss) to help sectors that are required to remain closed till june 20 was helpful and was welcome by those in the industry.
the affected sectors will receive 10 per cent jss support from june 21 to 30. when indoor activities in gyms and fitness studios are allowed to resume, staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing.
this is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities, which will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
tan acknowledged that it was something the industry would have to abide by in order for businesses to reopen and believes that it would give members the confidence to return to gyms.
but while the government will cover the cost of testing over the next three months, he expressed concerns about the added costs for gyms and fitness studios beyond that as they have already seen their revenues heavily impacted by the pandemic.
the operating costs for many outfits have already increased due to enhanced cleaning, disinfecting and sanitisation measures.
he added: "we hope that the testing costs will not be prohibitive, and that there can be more support for these costs.
"mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
from next monday, spectators will be allowed to return to sports events such as football's singapore premier league or mixed martial arts outfit one championship's shows.
the number of spectators will be capped at 250 attendees with pre-event testing, while no testing is required for events with 50 or fewer attendees.
a spokesman from the football association of singapore said: "as the spl is only due to resume next month, the football association of singapore will continue to monitor prevailing measures in place and will decide the conditions for re-entry of spl fans into match venues closer to the league's resumption period.
"read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the workers' party (wp) member of parliament (mp) for sengkang grc jamus lim took to facebook on wednesday (9 june) to share his views on the government's latest announcement of increasing the wages for cleaners in singapore.
on monday (7 june), the government revealed that the salaries of cleaners who are singaporeans and permanent resident (pr) will go up each year over six years from 2023, under the progressive wage model (pwm).
based on pwm, the increase will be for cleaners across all job levels and it will rise up to between s$1,570 and s$2,210 in 2023.  the amount will subsequently increase by at least s$170 yearly until 2028. for example, a full-time general or indoor cleaner will be entitled for a monthly wage of s$1,570 in july 2023.  this means the worker gets a pay hike of s$258, which is nearly 20 percent increase from the recommended salary of s$1,312 in 2022. commenting about the pwm, mr lim said it is will affect the salary structures of about 30,000 workers.
"this new policy specifies different wage progression paths for different categories.
by 2028, the lowest-wage category will have a gross pay of s$2,420, which will be above the #workersparty universal minimum wage (mw) call of s$1,300 take-home full-time equivalent," the mp noted.
however, he expressed that his main issue with the pwm is on how slow it has been rolled-out, as well as its lack of guarantee that the minimum wage of those in the lowest-wage sector/category will hit the s$1,300 take-home amount.
"in other words, we should get the minimum wage bit of the so-called minimum wage-plus (mw+) model—what senior minister tharman called the pwm—right.
then tinker with productivity ladders, increments, whatnot.
don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good.
"so, i view this implementation of pwm as substantial progress (no pun intended) that will improve the welfare of singaporeans and permanent residents.
this, of course, has been the premise behind fighting for minimum wages all along," stated mr lim.
if that's not all, the progressive salary increment of cleaners would also mean that other prices will go up, said the alternative party member.
"from a town council perspective, future contract bids will be higher, which could affect town council finances and impact s&cc charges (fortunately, we are locked into contracts for around 3/4 #sengkanggrc divisions)," he explained.
but, this is a good thing for the society because minimum wages help "correct imbalances in employer-employee bargaining power", the politician said.
"the small increase in prices that everyone pays vastly improves the lives of low wage, essential workers.
moreover, higher prices can beget quality.
we often think of how, if workers raise their productivity, this will beget higher wages.
but it could happen the other way round: when wages rise, it spurs investments that foster productivity, which in turn boosts quality," he expressed.
he continued, "i hope that we can implement the mw+ model to even more sectors, and phase in changes more quickly.
still, we should recognize this policy move for what it is: a genuine step in the right direction, along the lines of what the #workersparty has sought.
#makingyourvotecount. "
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
with schools moving to home-based learning, the dining-in prohibition, and social gatherings being capped at two people during phase 2 (heightened alert), we've had fewer reasons to head out and more reasons to stay in.
but has this led to more couples getting it on?
going off all the condom hoarding going on during last year's circuit breaker period, you might expect a spike in bedroom activity this time around too.
well, according to a straw poll conducted by asiaone of 16 sexually active adults between the ages of 18 and 44, that might not necessarily be the case — only 12 respondents said that they are still sexually active during this period.
of those who are sexually active, though, some have seen an improvement in their sex lives thanks to a surge in sexual activity.
one such individual is damien*, who went from having sex once a week to getting at it daily.
attributing the change in behaviour to "boredom", damien shared that in general, he has a neutral stance towards sex and does not feel like it is a crucial factor in the relationship.
but with the increase in sex, his relationship with his partner has become stronger during this period, he said.
[[nid:529380]]another respondent whose sex life has improved is sharon*, who feels like the pandemic has given her more opportunities to spend time with her partner.
she shared that to her, sex is "essential and intimate, as it's something you only share with someone you're in a relationship with".
overall, the amount of sex she has with her partner hasn't changed and they're still doing it around twice a week.
however, she said that with "less face-to-face work and social obligations", they have "more time to focus on each other", which translates to better sex.
unfortunately, not everyone shares the same sentiments.
around a quarter of our respondents noted deterioration in their sex lives ever since phase 2 (heightened alert) kicked in.
one such individual is jazymn*, who cites her hectic work schedule and rising stress levels as a reason.
while she and her partner still are sexually active, their quality of sex has dropped thanks to the stressors brought on by the pandemic.
and couples aren't the only ones who are struggling.
lisa*, who is not in a relationship, told us that the pandemic has affected her sex life too.
to her, sex is all about the "fun and pleasure".
prior to phase 2 (heightened alert), she would have sex around thrice a week with her friends with benefits.
sadly, when the new restrictions kicked in, this meant less sex for her.
"i can't meet my friends with benefits as much," she said.
while having less sex has left some of our respondents unsatisfied, others are pretty chill about the situation.
singles like h* and wn* don't think of sex as a huge priority and to h, "sex is just a way to relieve stress", so he isn't too fussed about how often he gets to engage in the act.
for him, it all depends on "the availabilities of [his] friends with benefits".
when asked about how his sex life has been affected during phase 2 (heightened alert), wn, who is single, simply said: "it depends on who i manage to get. "
and for some, the physical connection isn't the only thing that has gone through changes during this period — the emotional aspect of the relationship feels different too.
[[nid:524562]]take felicia*, for example.
she told us she still has sex with her partner once a week, and overall, their sex life has remained pretty much the same.
however, when it comes to the emotional part of their relationship, she feels that the pandemic has actually helped to improve their connection and they've "become closer".
bob* is another individual who said that spending more time at home has not changed the amount of sex he gets, and he still does so once a week.
however, his situation is quite the opposite of felicia's.
"spending more time together than usual results in more opportunities but less excitement," he admitted.
apart from that, there are other issues for him to deal with.
"my 'working spouse' appears to be a different person," he confessed when asked about how the pandemic has affected his relationship.
but at the end of the day, it all boils down to adapting to the new norm and riding through these hard times.
one such couple who have managed to do so is nicholas* and his girlfriend.
while they now have fewer opportunities to meet and spend time together, the decrease in sex does not bother them whatsoever.
instead, they make up for the lack of physical intimacy by gaming and meeting more often online.
in these extraordinary, fluid times where things are always changing, it's important to be able to react and adapt to new and different situations.
while it definitely isn't easy, it's heartening to know that we're not alone.
*not their real namesmelissateo@asiaone.
com
the call came as the leaders of the g7 group met friday in cornwall, england.
(file)a top chinese diplomat on friday condemned washington's "small circle" diplomacy, state media reported, in a phone call with us secretary of state antony blinken as g7 leaders met for their first in-person summit in nearly two years.
yang jiechi, the chinese communist party's chief diplomat, told blinken that "genuine multilateralism is not pseudo-multilateralism based on the interests of small circles".
"the only genuine multilateralism is that founded on the principles of the charter of the united nations and international law," yang told blinken, in their first one-on-one talks since acrimonious china-us discussions in anchorage in march.
the call came as the leaders of the g7 group -- the united states, the united kingdom, france, canada, germany, italy, and japan -- met friday in cornwall, england, with the challenge posed by china top of the agenda.
the us administration of joe biden has maintained a firm line against china, and hopes to rally allies to counter beijing on trade, technology and human rights -- particularly in the restive region of xinjiang, where washington has accused china of genocide.
yang on friday hit back against those claims, urging the united states to "resolve its own grave human rights violations and not use so-called human rights issues as a pretext to arbitrarily interfere in the internal affairs of other countries".
(except for the headline, this story has not been edited by ndtv staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
)track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
singapore: working from home will remain the default arrangement, even as singapore transitions to phase 3 (heightened alert) in the coming weeks.
"employers should ensure that employees who are able to work from home continue to do so," said co-chair of the covid-19 multi-ministry task force lawrence wong on thursday's (jun 10) press conference.
"we think that's still necessary in order to minimise movement and to minimise risk," he said.
companies should continue to stagger start times of employees and implement flexible working hours, said mr wong, who is also the finance minister.
workers also should not be cross-deployed to multiple worksites, added the ministry of health (moh) in a press release on thursday.
the government announced on may 14 thatworking from home will become the default for workplacesafter a spike in covid-19 community infections.
it was part of a slew of measures under phase 2 (heightened alert) aimed at bringing down the number of cases.
on when people will be allowed to resume working from offices, mr wong said on thursday that authorities will take a "phased approach".
"the embers are still there, we do not want to encourage too much movement.
we resume activities progressively but we do not want everything to happen all at the same time," he said.
the government will monitor the situation over the coming weeks, the minister said.
should cases remain "generally low and under control", vaccination rates rise and a "good and comprehensive testing regime" is in place, it may reconsider its position on working from home, he added.
jobs support scheme extendedthe jobs support scheme (jss), which subsidies local workers' salaries, will be extended for certain sectors that are required to remain closed until jun 20, said mr wong.
this is part of the staggered reopening under phase 3 (heightened alert), where some sectors will not be allowed to reopen until jun 21. they will receive 10 per cent jss support from jun 21 to jun 30. activities reopening on jun 21 include dining-in at f&b establishments, live performances, mask-off sports activities at gyms and fitness studios and in-person tuition and enrichment classes.
for taxi and private-hire drivers, the covid-19 driver relief fund will be extended for three more months at s$300 per month per vehicle for two months and s$150 for per vehicle for the next one month.
the continued support adds up to s$40 million and will help more than 50,000 taxi and private hire car drivers, said the land transport authority.
on top of this, taxi operators have pledged to continue providing rental waivers of at least s$12 million during this three-month extension of the support scheme.
regular testing for staff in unmasked activitiespeople who work in high-risk settings with unmasked customers will have to undergo regular covid-19 testing, regardless of their vaccination status.
this includes staff of dine-in f&b outlets, personal care and appearance services that require removal of masks such as facials, saunas and make-up services, and gym and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.
mandatory tests will be progressively rolled out to larger establishments first and extended to smaller businesses after.
for dine-in f&b outlets, testing will be rolled out starting from next month.
the capacity for the fast and easy testing regime will be "aggressively ramped up" in the coming months, moh said.
tests such as the antigen rapid test will be used.
the cost of the tests will be covered by the government for the next three months, said mr wong.
this is in view of the heightened alert period and that people, especially those in high-risk settings, are tested frequently, he said.
"beyond that, i think employers themselves will have to start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their business continuity plans," he said.
more details of the mandatory testing will be announced later, the health ministry said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore ion orchard will be shut for four days from saturday (june 12) for cleaning and disinfecting works after the ministry of health (moh) confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
the mall will be closed from 7am on saturday till 7am on wednesday.
on friday, moh reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion orchard had tested positive for covid-19.
currently an unlinked case, she is the third worker at ion orchard to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall until june 16. the other two cases linked to the mall are a retail assistant who works at the four leaves outlet there and a repair worker at grandwork interior.
ion orchard confirmed that it was notified by the authorities to close for four days in light of the recent rise in covid-19 cases.
during the closure, the mall will carry out deep cleansing and disinfection of its premises in line with guidelines issued by the authorities.
"during this period, shoppers or members of the public will not be allowed to enter the mall," it said.
however, both ion orchard link and ion paterson link, which are underground pedestrian networks, will remain accessible round the clock.
epidemiological investigations indicate ongoing transmission within the mall, according to a notice to tenants on friday.
moh said special testing operations will be conducted for staff who had been working at the mall from may 28 to disrupt any undetected community transmission.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to friday will also be offered free covid-19 testing.
those who had only walked through the mall to connect to neighbouring buildings or orchard mrt station need not be tested.
the ministry said shoppers who visited the mall from june 3 to june 11 should monitor their health closely and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for two weeks from their date of visit.
they are also encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell.
both ion orchard link and ion paterson link, which are underground pedestrian networks, will remain accessible round the clock.
st photo: gin tay

staff were seen packing up at shops in ion orchard on friday (june 11) evening.
photo: lianhe zaobao
ion orchard told the straits times it has implemented various cleaning measures since the coronavirus outbreak started.
these include increasing the frequency of cleaning and disinfecting of key touch points in the mall's common areas such as lift buttons, hand-rails and auto-door panels.
hand sanitisers are also provided at the mall entrances, lifts and concierge counters.
"the safety and well-being of our shoppers, visitors, and working communities are of utmost importance to us.
we will continue to monitor the situation and work closely with the authorities on the necessary precautionary measures," said the mall.
"for the period of the mall closure, our tenants will receive the necessary support, including rental waivers, to help them ride through this period.
"tenants have up to 6pm on saturday to remove the stocks from their store.
mr james quan, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, was informed of the closure at about 5pm on friday.
the 53-year-old was told that testing for the staff would be done in the mall's carpark.
"i think this is the right thing to do, to make sure that safety comes first and ensure that the coast is clear," he said.
"so i think it's better to just close for four days and hope everything will return to normal on june 16.
"read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
climate impact x is a welcome addition to the country's climate action initiatives that provide new economic opportunities, help price discovery and can aid future compliance, say energy researchers.
singapore: singapore took another big step in advancing the green agenda last month.
the country on may 20 announced plans to position itself as a hub for carbon services.
climate impact x (cix) is a joint venture between the development bank of singapore, singapore exchange, standard chartered bank and temasek holdings.
first envisioned by the emerging stronger taskforce's alliance for action on sustainability, cix will provide a marketplace for trading carbon credits commencing in late 2021. singapore is well-suited to hosting a carbon marketplace.
it is an ideal base for multinational companies working on projects that generate emission credits across the region.
as a regional leader for commodities trading, singapore also deals with many energy majors and traders who will form a large part of the clientele for carbon market ancillary services.
there are already around 30 firms here offering carbon consulting services, which include low-carbon project development, consulting and verification for the registration of certified emissions-reduction credits, carbon footprint measurement, project financing and legal services.
the launch of a carbon marketplace can attract more of such consultancies in a key growth industry.
(what will cix bring to the table of carbon trading and climate action?
find out on the climate conversations.
)a welcome addition to singapore's climate action initiativescix is a welcome addition to the suite of emission-cutting initiatives and institutions in singapore that helps the country accelerate its peak and net-zero emissions timelines.
under the paris agreement, singapore'snationally determined contributionis to peak emissions at 65 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent around 2030.  singapore also seeks to halve peak emissions to 33 million tonnes by 2050 and achieve net zero emissions as soon as viable during the second half of the century.
a key innovation of cix includes provisions for trading nature-based solutions.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
nature-based climate solutions like mangroves, wetlands and forests can absorb vast amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
a recent study by researchers at the nus centre for nature-based climate solutions estimates reforestation in southeast asia can contribute to 3.
4 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions reductions per year.
reforestation, coupled with supply chain transparency and harmonised standards for carbon offsets, can translate into a ready source of carbon credits.
as an exchange focused on such carbon credits, cix will enhance the climate finance ecosystem within singapore and expand the range of mechanisms for firms to manage and price their carbon externalities.
google, microsoft and amazon are said to be in talks to use cix in their journey to become net-zero emitters.
moreover, it offers another way for singapore to widen the international scope of its environmental management activities.
the right price for carboncix can aid with the adjustment of singapore's carbon tax – which came into effect in january 2019 – by expanding the array of tools used for pricing carbon in singapore.
this will permit the singapore government some freedom when discussing future, probably upward revision to the current tax, since local firms will have the ability to defray their "carbon costs" in other ways.
the current tax rate of s$5 per tonne of co2 can be contested for three reasons.
first, the abatement costs are typically considered much higher, and ideally, carbon price would reflect the cost of abatement.
a world bank report published in may notes that a price of us$40 to us$80 (s$50 to s$100) per tonne of co2 is needed to meet the 2 degrees celsius goal.
second, the s$5 price tag might not fully capture carbon embedded in international supply chains and trade.
this has spurred debate around the need for carbon border adjustment mechanisms – a tool for ensuring that domestic and imported goods price their embodied emissions equally, thereby discouraging trade with high-polluting countries that do not have effective carbon pricing mechanisms of their own.
third, singapore's carbon pricing is arguably not a sufficiently liquid mechanism because it changes infrequently.
the government has plans to increase the tax rate to between s$10 and s$15 per tonne by 2030.  the tax level and trajectory post-2023 will be reviewed by 2022, in consultation with industry and expert groups in order to give businesses and opportunity to adjust to changes.
there is wisdom in introducing market-based mechanisms to facilitate the price discovery process and allow emissions to be priced into commercial decisions.
in the absence of such a mechanism, finding the right price for carbon is complex.
it requires striking a balance between reducing the carbon footprint of industries and increasing the costs of doing business, which may negatively impact the competitiveness of singapore's economy.
however, with the pandemic still evolving, the success of singapore's carbon services hub should not be assumed.
increased and quantifiable demand for carbon offsets also suggest an upward trend in emissions-intensive activities in the near term.
getting companies to play ballthe cix is also a first step to getting companies to play ball on singapore's climate obligations.
demand for carbon offsets could arise from several sources.
companies currently paying carbon taxes may purchase credits to defray their carbon tax liability.
similarly, firms or other speculators may purchase credits to trade later for a premium, should this be allowed under the carbon pricing act.
retail trade from individuals seeking socially responsible investment options can also be expected.
yet singapore must not forget there are no industry-level mandatory reduction targets.
many carbon commitments by corporations in the region are currently voluntary, which may limit market participation.
regulation can steward strong market participation.
with rapid global expansion of climate finance, compliance concerns have also grown because of "greenwash" – when companies over-inflate the environmental credentials of their projects.
the devil is in the details.
regulators must provide robust mechanisms for project verification, monitoring and compliance enforcement not only to prevent greenwash, but also to ensure fair benchmarking across all projects.
this could be industry initiated, where carbon credit and offset suppliers commit to co-develop and implement greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodologies for their respective sectors.
regulators will then be able to assess the methodologies that improve transparency in carbon credit transactions.
having recognised the complexity of scaling up global carbon markets, the global institute on finance's taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets has launched a consultation on creating "high-integrity" markets, due to end in late june.
it seeks to establish "a threshold standard for high-quality credits, clear legal standards and uniting existing, fragmented carbon credit markets in one impactful, well-run system".
to ensure the integrity and quality of its credits, cix will work with global partners including the taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets and the natural climate solutions alliance.
it will also use cutting-edge data analytics, such as satellite monitoring, machine learning and blockchain technology to ensure the environmental integrity of credits traded on cix.
global rating agencies might be roped in to provide independent environmental ratings for nature-based projects which will issue carbon credits.
it is important singapore provides a well-run and trusted market for carbon offsets while expanding emissions-reduction efforts.
however, to meet its own national targets, companies must ultimately commit to less carbon-intensive production models and not simply "pay to play" by exploiting offsets.
melissa low is research fellow at the energy studies institute, national university of singapore.
david broadstock is senior research fellow and lead energy economist at the same institute.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new york (afp) it sounds like a real-life take on "pinocchio" a us lobster fisherman says he was scooped into the mouth of a humpback whale friday (june 11) and yet lived to tell the story.
"i was in his closed mouth for about 30 to 40 seconds before he rose to the surface and spit me out," michael packard wrote on facebook hours after his brush with the depths.
"a humpback whale tried to eat me," he added.
"i am very bruised up but have no broken bones. "
packard's beyond-belief big fish yarn began, he told local paper cape cod times, when he was diving for lobster off the coast of the northeastern state of massachusetts.
"all of a sudden, i felt this huge shove and the next thing i knew it was completely black," he said after being released from the hospital.
he was about 35 feet down (10m) and his first thought was that he had been attacked by a shark, but the lack of teeth and obvious wounds made him reconsider.
packard said he began to struggle but unlike in the classic children's tale "pinocchio" there was no need to build a fire to secure his escape.
"i saw light, and he started throwing his head side-to-side and the next thing i knew i was outside (in the water)," packard told the paper.
the story says packard's fishing mate josiah mayo "saw the explosion of water as the whale surfaced and packard was ejected," but doesn't include any quotes attributed to him.
jooke robbins, director of humpback whale studies at the center for coastal studies in provincetown, massachusetts, said she had no reason to doubt the account.
"i didn't think it was a hoax because i knew the people involved.
.
.
so i have every reason to believe that what they say is true," she told afp.
robbins said she had never heard of an "accident" of this type, but "it may be that he (packard) was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. "
"when they (whales) fish.
.
.
they rush forward, open their mouth and engulf the fish and the water very quickly," she said, adding they have large mouths, but throats so narrow they wouldn't be able to swallow a human.
the whale, which according to mayo's description was on the young side, "may not be able to detect quickly enough that something is in the way. "
even if all the details weren't yet known, one thing was clear for robbins: "it is important for people to be quite aware.
.
.
and when they see a whale, keep a good distance.
it's really important to give whales their space.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: two eateries have been ordered to close, and two supermarkets fined for breaching covid-19 safe management measures, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment on friday (jun 11).
the closure orders will take effect when dining-in is allowed to resume, said the ministry.
the first eatery ordered to close is the starz bistro at 66 east coast road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 22, and consume alcohol after 10.
30pm.
the urban redevelopment authority (ura) has ordered the establishment to close for 10 days.
the second eatery is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant at 367/369 beach road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 28 at 9.
30pm.
as this is its third offence, ura has ordered the establishment to close for 30 days.
singaporeimplemented tighter measures from may 16 to jun 13, including barring dining-in at food and beverage outlets.
two supermarkets were fined s$1,000 each for not having staff members to oversee the safe entry checkpoints: giant supermarket, located at bedok shopping complex and the cold storage outlet at siglap v. mse also said that since phase 2 (heightened alert) was implemented,77 individuals have been finedfor breaching safe management measures at parks.
agencies will also step up enforcement at hotspots where safe management measures are more frequently breached, including parks and hdb common areas, the ministry said.
on thursday, the ministry of health (moh) said that dining in can resume on jun 21 if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, as part ofsingapore's plan to move to phase 3 (heightened alert).
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a review of the proposed singapore-hong kong air travel bubble (atb) is set for early july, said the ministry of transport (mot) on thursday (10 june), after its launch was previously deferred several times.
the launch was deferred from a target date of 26 may following a mutual agreement between minister for transport s iswaran and hong kong secretary for commerce and economic development edward yau, due to the worsening covid-19 situation in singapore.
mot noted that the situation in singapore has since improved, with the number of community cases and local unlinked coronavirus cases showing a downward trend.
meanwhile, the situation in hong kong continues to remain stable, with very few community cases over the past few weeks.
"both singapore and hong kong remain strongly committed to launching the atb safely.
we will continue to monitor the public health situation in both places closely," said mot.
the travel bubble was initially announced on 11 november 2020 to much fanfare, touted as the first of its kind in the region, or even the world.
however, just 10 days later, the original 22 november launch was suspended for two weeks due to a surge in covid-19 cases in hong kong.
it was later delayed indefinitely on 1 december "in view of the severity of the epidemic situation in hong kong with the number of local cases of unknown sources increasing rapidly," said the hong kong government.
separately, health minister ong ye kung, who co-chairs a multi-ministry taskforce on covid-19, told reporters at a virtual press conference that there are no "firm plans" for a travel bubble with south korea.
"i think it's actually good to continue discussions with different partners, regions and countries on what are the possibilities going ahead, but as of now i don't think there are any firm plans.
"ong was responding to a question about reports that south korea aims to expedite travel bubble talks with singapore to allow quarantine-free travel for fully vaccinated people from as early as july.
ong, who was previously transport minister, noted that the term "travel bubble" has often been loosely used.
in the case of singapore and hong kong, they are two "very safe regions" that want to form a free travel area, which involves pre-departure testing and on-arrival testing, without any quarantine when passengers arrive, ong said.
"in the case of south korea, i believe the concept has been a vaccinated travel bubble, which means if both regions have managed their infections up to a very low level.
.
.
and they are confident that if travellers are vaccinated, it's safe enough to travel with some precautions.
"he added, "i think these are concepts that we need to think about, for the medium term, and definitely not in this period, when we are just recovering from this wave of transmission and opening up in stages, but i think it's always good that we cast our minds several months down the road, because we do need to live our lives normally and resume normalcy.
"stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:1.
5m singaporeans aged 12 to 39 can register for covid vaccinations from fridaycovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junecovid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenagnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore live performances, wedding solemnisations, and congregational and other worship services will be capped at 250 people with pre-event testing from monday (june 14), up from 100 people under the current restrictions.
the cap remains at 50 people without pre-event testing, and those who are fully vaccinated will be exempt from pre-event testing, said the ministry of culture, community and youth in a statement on friday (june 11) .
here are the details:from june 14, congregational and other worship services will be capped at 250 persons with pre-event testing (pet), and up to 50 persons without pet.
individuals who are fully vaccinated meaning, two weeks after receiving the second dose of the pfizer or moderna vaccine are exempt from pet.
for services with more than 50 worshippers, they must be segregated into zones of no more than 50 each.
worshippers can participate in permitted religious activities in groups of no more than five people, up from the two previously.
from june 21, a maximum of 30 persons are allowed to be involved in or support the conduct of live performance elements during the worship service.
of these, up to 10 persons are allowed to unmask at any given time, with up to five persons unmasked for singing or playing of wind or brass instruments.
persons should unmask only when required to perform their duties.
singing by worshippers, even with masks on, is still not permitted during phase three (heightened alert).
from june 21, religious organisations may use places of worship to conduct religious rites and resume other religious activities (for example, pastoral services and religious classes for adults and children) so long as they are conducted in gatherings not exceeding 50 persons, subject to safe distancing and other safe management measures appropriate to the nature of the religious activity.
this is also subject to the total premises cap of 150 persons.
from june 14, the audience for live performances will be capped at 250 people with pet, and up to 50 persons without pet.
individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from pet.
all performers must continue to be properly masked at all times on stage.
from june 21, performers will be allowed to unmask on stage, including for singing and the playing of wind instruments.
a maximum of 30 performers and crew will be allowed on stage and backstage at any given time, with a maximum of 10 unmasked performers.
of the 10 unmasked performers, a maximum of five can be unmasked for singing and playing of instruments that require intentional expulsion of air.
from june 14, marriage solemnisations may take place in places of worship with up to 250 persons with pet, or up to 50 persons without pet, subject to safe capacity limits.
individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from pet.
the cap excludes the solemniser and religious and supporting workers, though the numbers of these workers involved should be kept to a minimum.
from june 21, in-person tuition and enrichment classes for participants aged 18 and below, and classes in singing and wind instruments, may resume.
unmasking will be allowed in classes for dance, singing, wind instruments, voice training, and speech and drama, subject to prevailing safe management measures.
from june 14, museums can operate at a reduced capacity of 50 per cent.
tours within museum premises may be conducted for a maximum group size of 20 persons (excluding guide), with up to five persons allowed in any one sub-group.
a 1m safe distance should be maintained between sub-groups.
from june 21, limits on performers and crew at recordings of digital productions and their associated rehearsals will be raised.
a maximum of 30 performers and crew are allowed on stage and backstage at any given time.
this includes a maximum of 10 performers who can be unmasked at any given time.
of the 10 unmasked performers, no more than five may sing or play wind instruments at any given time.
arts and cultural organisations will no longer need to notify the national arts council and the infocomm media development authority of their plans before proceeding with their digital productions and associated rehearsals if they adhere to these safe management measures.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
[update: june 12]article updated with zoe tay's response.
gift shopping for friends is usually a tricky business.
you want it to be personal, but also thoughtful and practical.
well, local actress zoe tay has probably given one of the best gifts of all — bras.
no joke, the mediacorp ah jie sent a care package to two of her celebrity friends, sharon au and local songbird stefanie sun.
the care package came with some bras, along with six bottles of fabric perfumes.
the contents were shared on instagram stories by both celebrities and stefanie had a rather cheeky response.
the 42-year-old wrote: "a sudden sweet surprise arrived.
ah jie, you really think too highly of (my size) hor.
"as for sharon, who is back in singapore till august and is currently serving out her quarantine at an orchard road hotel, she recalled her rookie days in showbiz and how zoe looked out for her.
she shared: "when i was a rookie in the industry and had to interview zoe, she knew i was nervous and made extra effort to be affable and reassuring.
now i'm all grown up and she continues to care and encourage.
"this is why she is our ah jie forever.
thank you for the surprise zoe.
"sharon, 45, also previously shared that zoe's presence at the hotel when she came to deliver the gift and some food caused quite the commotion.
based on the instagram tags from the celebrities, it seems that the lingerie might have come from amanda fashion gallery while the perfumes are from f'diary.
we reached out to zoe's manager for clarification, and zoe said she is not the brands' ambassador and is only supporting a friend's business.
also read: sharon au's serving quarantine at orchard hotel, zoe tay causes 'commotion' after sending food to herbryanlim@asiaone.
com
singapore and australia will work towards an air travel bubble, and both nations will lay the groundwork for resuming two-way travel in a safe and calibrated manner, said the prime ministers of both countries yesterday.
they also hoped that students from singapore could be the first to travel under a pilot arrangement so that they can continue their studies, which have been disrupted by covid-19 travel restrictions, before a full travel bubble is in place.
the leaders were speaking to reporters after prime minister lee hsien loong met his australian counterpart scott morrison at the istana for the sixth australia-singapore annual leaders' meeting.
this is the first official visit by a foreign leader to singapore since the start of the covid-19 pandemic, and mr morrison's second stop after new zealand last month.
at a joint press conference after their meeting, pm lee said they discussed the fight against covid-19 and resuming travel between the two countries.
"we discussed how two-way travel between singapore and australia can eventually resume, in a safe and calibrated manner, when both sides are ready," he said.
pm lee added that there is a need to prepare the infrastructure and processes for such travel.
he said: "it starts with mutual recognition of health and vaccination certificates, possibly in a digital form.
when all the preparations are ready, then we can start small with an air travel bubble to build confidence on both sides.
"echoing pm lee, mr morrison said that while there is some time before singapore and australia can open up the air travel bubble, the two countries are working on putting systems in place to do so.
the leaders also acknowledged the importance of open borders to post-pandemic recovery.
on students getting the first opportunity to travel, they said such a move could be a good opportunity to test the systems, before widening travel.
mr morrison said: "we really do want to focus on those students coming, as a first wave, a first tranche as part of the exercise of piloting how these systems can work most effectively when we get to the next phase.
"pm lee said he raised this matter with mr morrison specifically because "quite a number" of singaporeans study in australia and there is urgency for them to go back to school, especially for those who have secured clinical attachments or postings.
mr morrison said singapore is the first country outside of new zealand that australia would wish to engage in a travel bubble with.
"and we want to get it right in singapore, which we know we can do because of the very sophisticated systems that singapore has," he added.
pm lee noted that australia and singapore have similar approaches to keeping the virus out of their populations and keeping their people safe.
both countries also strongly supported each other during the early stages of the pandemic.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
the covid-19 vaccine task force of the u. s.  centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) stated that it has observed increased cases of heart inflammation in adolescents and younger adults, especially aged 12 to 24, following inoculation with authorized mrna-based covid-19 vaccines from moderna mrna, and pfizer pfe/biontech bntx.
several hundreds of cases of myocarditis and pericarditis, both conditions of heart inflammation, were reported to the u. s.  government's vaers (vaccine adverse event reporting system) following dose 1 of any mrna-based vaccine in the last two months.
please note that vaers is a national early warning system to detect possible safety problems in u. s.  licensed vaccines.
the number of cases increased further after the second dose of these vaccines.
moreover, the cases occurred in higher number of younger patients following dose 2 compared to dose 1.  the cdc stated that similar inflammation cases were not reported following vaccination with j&j's jnj adenovirus-based covid-19 vaccine.
per a reuters report, the israel's health ministry raised the alarm when it reported a likely link of heart inflammation in young men vaccinated with pfizer's bnt162b earlier this month.
following this report, the cdc and health regulators in other countries started investigating such cases.
although the number of reported cases is small compared to total inoculations with mrna vaccines, they were higher than expected in the younger age groups.
we note that the cdc is yet to link these adverse events to mrna vaccines and has scheduled a meeting of the advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) on jun 18 to discuss and assess the heart inflammation reports.
moreover, the government authority has recommended continuation of vaccination for everyone of age 12 or older given the risk of covid-19 illness and related complications.
however, we note that the cdc report also stated that more than 50% of heart inflammation cases were reported in the age group of 12-24 that has received only 8.
8% of vaccine doses.
this suggests that any adverse outcome from the acip meeting scheduled next week can hamper vaccination with mrna vaccines in the adolescent patient group, and hurt prospects of these vaccine developers.
however, the percentage of inflammation cases suggests that the risk from these vaccines is significantly lower than their benefits.
a cdc study claims that these vaccines are 91% effective.
moreover, most patients facing inflammation issues quickly felt better following medication and rest.
we remind investors that pfizer/biontech's covid-19 vaccine received authorization for emergency use in adolescents last month from the fda.
moderna filed for a similar authorization in the united states, europe and canada earlier this month.
meanwhile, pfizer and biontech have pledged two billion doses of their covid-19 vaccines to ensure equitable access to their vaccines globally.
as part of the pledge, the company plans to supply 200 million doses in 2021 and 300 million doses in the first half of 2022 to the u. s.  government at not-for-profit price.
the government will donate these doses to low- and lower middle-income countries and organizations that support them.
while moderna and pfizer carry a zacks rank #3 (hold), biontech sports a zacks rank of 1 (strong buy).
you can see the complete list of today's zacks #1 rank stocks here.
in addition to the stocks you read about above, would you like to see zacks' top picks to capitalize on the internet of things (iot)?
it is one of the fastest-growing technologies in history, with an estimated 77 billion devices to be connected by 2025.  that works out to 127 new devices per second.
zacks has released a special report to help you capitalize on the internet of things's exponential growth.
it reveals 4 under-the-radar stocks that could be some of the most profitable holdings in your portfolio in 2021 and beyond.
click here to download this report free >>want the latest recommendations from zacks investment research?
today, you can download 7 best stocks for the next 30 days.
click to get this free report johnson & johnson (jnj) : free stock analysis report pfizer inc.  (pfe) : free stock analysis report moderna, inc.  (mrna) : free stock analysis report biontech se sponsored adr (bntx) : free stock analysis report to read this article on zacks.
com click here.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatidemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringensingapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hoen elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
turns out the comic books were wrong.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two food and beverage establishments have been ordered to close after breaching safe management measures.
steamov steamboat buffet restaurant in beach road will be closed for 30 days and the starz bistro in east coast road for 10 days, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment (mse) on friday (june 11).
meanwhile, 77 people have been fined for breaching safe management measures (smms) in parks under tightened covid-19 rules that came into effect on may 16.  the curbs will gradually ease starting on june 14. two retail outlets giant supermarket at bedok shopping complex and cold storage supermarket at condominium siglap v near east coast road have been fined $1,000 each for not having staff to oversee their safe entry checkpoints.
with dining in slated to resume from june 21, government agencies will step up enforcement at f&b establishments and take firm action against any breaches of covid-19 rules, said the mse.
such breaches include the failure to maintain a 1m safe distance between groups and to prevent them from intermingling, allowing group sizes larger than five people, serving and allowing the consumption of alcohol after 10.
30pm, and providing live entertainment and games.
"enforcement actions will include fines, closures even for first offence, and the revoking of food shop, public entertainment or liquor licences," said the ministry.
it reminded patrons and operators of f&b establishments to strictly adhere to safe management measures as these places are high-risk settings where coronavirus transmission has taken place in recent weeks.
mse also said the national parks board will continue to temporarily close access to some parks and sections of beaches, lawns and facilities such as hardcourts, shelters and carparks when these areas get too crowded or where people remain non-compliant with safe management measures.
nparks has advised  compliance with safe management measures on more than 6,000 instances to parkgoers who were not wearing masks, and on more than 800 occasions to people who had gathered in groups of more than two, added the ministry.
these were verbally given by enforcement officers.
the latest breach is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant's third offence.
it had allowed customers to dine there at 9.
30pm on may 28. the starz bistro had done so on may 22, and also allowed customers to consume alcohol after 10.
30pm that day.
mse said the closure orders for both eateries will take effect when dining in is allowed to resume.
it said that agencies have identified places where safe management measures are more frequently breached and have stepped up enforcement presence there.
these hot spots includes parks and common areas of housing board estates such as hardcourts, basketball courts and pavilions.
"where repeated breaches of smms have been observed, agencies will close off facilities to ensure the safety of the community," added the ministry.
for example, a pavilion at block 90 pipit road was cordoned off on may 31 after a group of more than 12 people were found gathering there for dance sessions on multiple occasions.
"we therefore urge members of the public to use these facilities responsibly," said mse.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
bengaluru: an indian state has raised its covid-19 death toll sharply higher after the discovery of thousands of unreported cases, lending weight to suspicion that india's overall death tally is significantly more than the official figure.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
many of those deaths were not recorded in covid-19 tallies, doctors and health experts say.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, with 29.
2 million cases and 359,676 deaths, according to health ministry data.
but the discovery of several thousand unreported deaths in the state of bihar has raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the health department in bihar, one of india's poorest states, revised its total covid-19 related death toll to more than 9,429 from about 5,424 on wednesday.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
"these deaths occurred 15 days ago and were only uploaded now in the government portal.
action will be taken against some of the private hospitals," said the official, who declined to be identified as he is not authorised to speak to the media.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
"widespread problem"as crematoriums struggled to handle the wave of deaths over the past two months, many families placed bodies in the holy ganges river or buried them in shallow graves on its sandbanks.
those people would likely not have been registered as covid-19 victims.
"under-reporting is a widespread problem, not necessarily deliberate, often because of inadequacies," rajib dasgupta, head of the centre of social medicine and community health at new delhi's jawaharlal nehru university, told reuters.
"in the rural context, whatever states may say or claim, testing is not simple, easy or accessible," dasgupta said.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
the official total of cases stood at 29.
2 million on thursday after rising by 94,052 in the previous 24 hours, while total fatalities were at 359,676, according to data from the health ministry.
the new york times estimated deaths based on death counts over time and infection fatality rates and put india's toll at 600,000 to 1.
6 million.
the government dismissed those estimates as exaggerated.
but the main opposition congress party said that other states must follow bihar's example and conduct a review of deaths over the past two months.
"this proves beyond a doubt government has been hiding covid deaths, " said shama mohamed, a spokeswoman for congress, adding that an audit should also be ordered in the big states of uttar pradesh, madhya pradesh and gujarat.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the cape cod fisherman estimates he was in the beast's mouth for 30 seconds; experts say the encounter was a flukelast modified on fri 11 jun 2021 23.
32 bsta commercial lobster diver who got caught in the mouth of a humpback whale off the coast of cape cod on friday morning said he thought he was going to die.
michael packard, 56, of wellfleet, told wbz-tv after he was released from cape cod hospital that he was about 45ft (14 meters) deep in the waters off provincetown when "all of a sudden i felt this huge bump, and everything went dark".
he thought he had been attacked by a shark, common in area waters, but then realized he could not feel any teeth and he wasn't in any pain.
"then i realized, oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth .
.
.
and he's trying to swallow me," he said.
"and i thought to myself ok, this is it – i'm finally – i'm gonna die. "
his thoughts went to his wife and children.
he estimates he was in the whale's mouth for about 30 seconds, but continued to breathe because he still had his breathing apparatus in.
then the whale surfaced, shook its head, and spat him out.
he was rescued by his crewmate in the surface boat.
his sister, cynthia packard, originally told the cape cod times that her brother broke a leg, but he said later that his legs are just bruised.
charles "stormy" mayo, a senior scientist and whale expert at the center for coastal studies in provincetown, told the newspaper that such human-whale encounters are rare.
humpbacks are not aggressive and mayo thinks it was an accidental encounter while the whale was feeding on fish, likely sand lance.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
it is heartening to read that the government has accepted the tripartite committee's proposal to increase the wages of cleaners, with a view to narrowing the income disparity between cleaners and other workers (cleaners to see their wages increase over 6 years from 2023, june 8).
however, the timeline of the wage increase does not seem to be in sync with the speed with which covid-19 has exacted a toll on this group of workers.
as we have seen, there has been a huge increase in cleaning demand since the onset of covid-19, and many workers are deployed in high-risk areas like hospitals and the airport, where they are subject to a much higher risk of infection.
while cleaners are slated to get 3 per cent annual wage increases from last year to next year under previous updates to the progressive wage model, i wonder if the latest updates can be tweaked to bring forward the well-deserved wage adjustment.
otherwise, it is not obvious how the lives of these lower-wage workers are being uplifted if they have to wait for two years before they can see any significant sign of the fruit of their hard work.
karen yip lai khamjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore with some sectors facing an additional week of closure up till june 20, the current enhancements to the jobs support scheme (jss) will be extended for affected businesses such as food establishments that cannot yet resume dining in.
businesses that had to suspend many, if not all, of their operations because of the tightened measures during phase two (heightened alert) were given jss support of 50 per cent from may 16 to june 13.  this will be extended till june 20, the ministry of health said on thursday (june 10).
the sectors affected include food establishments, gyms and sport facilities, performing arts organisations and arts education centres.
they will get 10 per cent jss support from june 21 to june 30, the ministry added.
the scheme provides wage support to employers for the first $4,600 of gross monthly wages paid to each local employee.
in addition, the ministry of finance said that selected retail outlets, museums, art galleries and historical sites, affected personal care services, cinema operators, and family entertainment centres will continue to receive 30 per cent of jss support up till june 20.  this will be reduced to 10 per cent from june 21 to june 30.  the payouts will be disbursed in september.
the ministry of finance had announced on may 28 that the additional support measures, including wage subsidies and one-off payments for individuals and rental reliefs, will cost a total of $800 million.
singapore will reopen its economy in two phases from june 14, with food and beverage establishments, gyms and fitness studios to reopen from june 21, as they have been identified as higher risk.
"these are predominantly the activities where people are engaged in interactions without their masks on," said finance minister lawrence wong at a multi-ministry task force on covid-19 conference on thursday.
"if you look at it, it's f&b, it's gyms, fitness these are the higher-risk settings, and that's why we decided to wait for a full incubation cycle of low, stable numbers, and then we will be able to resume these activities on june 21.
"read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — dining in at food and beverage establishments can resume from 21 june, provided the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, the multi-ministry taskforce (mtf) on the pandemic said on thursday (10 june).
the measure was unveiled by the mtf at a virtual media conference as it announced that singapore will gradually move back to phase 3 (heightened alert) in two steps, with one set of measures taking effect from 14 june and another from 21 june.
f&b establishments are reminded to strictly observe at least one metre safe distancing between groups of diners of no more than five persons per group so as to mitigate the risk of transmission between unmasked persons, the ministry of health said separately in a statement.
"we will be significantly stepping up enforcement and will take firmer enforcement action for any breaches.
patrons are reminded to keep their masks on at all times, except when eating or drinking," moh said.
mtf co-chair lawrence wong, who is also finance minister, acknowledged that f&b operators would be disappointed by the prospect of having to wait one more week before they can re-open.
"i would ask all of them to make use of the one week to really go through their processes, their protocols, make sure that their restaurant layouts comply fully with the rules.
.
.
because we know that these are high risk settings.
"singapore is currently in phase 2 (heightened alert) reopening, which started on 16 may and will end on 13 june.
the mtf also announced the following measures taking effect from 21 june, on condition of the pandemic situation remaining under control:wedding receptions will be allowed to resume with up to 100 attendees including the wedding couple but excluding vendors, with pre-event testing (pet) required for all attendees.
for wedding receptions up to 50 attendees, pet is required only for all members of the wedding party of up to 20 attendees including the wedding couple.
the unmasking and singing/playing of wind instruments for live performances will be allowed, subject to relevant safe management measures, which will be released by the national arts council (nac).
singing and playing of wind instruments may also resume for live performances at congregational and worship services.
gyms and fitness studios may resume indoor mask-off sports activities, with safe distancing of at least two metres between persons and at least three metres between groups of up to five persons.
sports classes – both indoors and outdoors – will be capped at 30 persons, including the instructor, with groups of no more than five persons each.
class participants may unmask if they are engaging in strenuous activities, although they are strongly encouraged to remain masked where possible to reduce the risk of transmission.
sportsg will announce more details later.
in-person tuition and enrichment classes for those aged 18 and below will be allowed to resume with enhanced safe management measures.
the ministry of education will announce more details later.
higher-risk arts and culture classes such as singing, and wind instruments will also be allowed to resume.
the nac will announce more details later.
wong told reporters that, going forward, the government would take more "aggressive localised actions", such as snap lockdowns, in order to avoid having to impose general nationwide restrictions like another circuit breaker.
"we think that's the way to live with the virus, while enabling most activities to resume. "
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother stories:singaporean woman, 86, dies from covid-19; linked to ttsh clusterman who wanted to get married in china breached shn to appeal to icagurmit singh, actor in covid-19 jingle, fined $800 for speedingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
singapore: from next monday, dream cruises' world dream will resume its cruise operations at 50 per cent passenger capacity.
this comes after theministry of health's (moh) announcementthat the operating capacity of attractions, including the two cruises world dream and royal caribbean's quantum of the seas that have received prior approval from authorities will be increased from the current limit of 25 per cent to 50 per cent from jun 14.
"world dream will resume operating at the permitted 50 per cent passenger capacity where guests from different households may now enjoy the option of travelling in a group size of up to five," said dream cruises in a media release on friday (jun 11).
it added that from jun 21, guests may also enjoy dining-in and live performances at the cruises.
singapore is currently inphase 2 (heightened alert), after tighter covid-19 restrictions took effect on may 16, ending on jun 13.  under these measures, attractions had to reduce their operating capacity to 25 per cent.
dream cruises' president mr michael goh said that despite the heightened alert measures, world dream has "enjoyed robust sales in june and we are seeing limited availability of cruises in july".
"with the diligence of our crew to provide the safest environment for our guests on board, world dream has extended its proven track record as worry-free vacation option for singaporeans," added mr goh.
dream cruises and royal caribbean started offering cruises to nowhere in november and december last year respectively as part of apilot schemethat allows round-trips with no ports of call.
in december, aroyal caribbean's quantum of the seas cruise was cut shortwhen it turned back ahead of schedule after a passenger tested positive for covid-19.
the 83-year-old passenger later tested negative on two covid-19 tests after returning to singapore.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
canberra: australia will refurbish its ageing collins-class submarine fleet, the australian newspaper reported on friday (jun 11), as doubts over canberra's a$50 billion (us$38.
8 billion) deal for 12 new submarines built by french shipbuilder naval group grow.
australia in 2016 selected naval group to build a new submarine fleet to replace its more than two-decades-old collins submarines and significantly expand its military to protect strategic and trade interests in the asia pacific.
the deal, one of the world's most lucrative defence deals, has been beset by issues and delays due to canberra's requirement that the majority of the manufacturing and components be sourced locally.
as a result, australian defence officials to last month said they were undertaking "contingency planning".
casting further doubt over the deal with naval group, the australian reported the minister for defence peter dutton will order a refit of existing collins-class submarines.
"clearly there have been problems with the arrangements with naval group," dutton told the australian.
"there has been concern on both sides in relation to the programme and i need to make sure that we have the best capacity available to us.
"australian first discussed replacing its trouble-plagued collins class submarines nearly a decade ago.
the collins submarines were due to be retired in the next few years.
the first of australia's six collins-class submarines reaches the end of its lifespan in 2026.  this is several years before the first of the new fleet, a diesel-electric version of naval group's 5,000-tonne barracuda nuclear-powered submarine, is scheduled to be delivered.
the final new submarine will be operational during the 2050s.
australia's prime minister scott morrison will meet with french president emmanuel macron next week and the two are expected to discuss the submarine deal.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore – indoor fitness activities will be allowed to resume from 21 june if the covid-19 situation in singapore remains under control in the next few weeks, the multi-ministry taskforce shared in a press conference on thursday (10 june).
gyms and fitness studios may resume indoor mask-off sports activities, with safe distancing of at least two metres between persons and at least three metres between groups of up to five persons.
sports classes (both indoors and outdoors) will be capped at 30 persons (including the instructor), comprised of groups of no more than five persons.
class participants may unmask if they are engaging in strenuous activities, although they are strongly encouraged to remain masked where possible to reduce the risk of transmission.
ken mok, the ceo of true group, shared with yahoo lifestyle sea that he was happy to hear the news: "we are happy and grateful that we can soon welcome our members back to our clubs with appropriate safe distancing measures in place.
while we have been conducting online and outdoor classes that have been very well received, our members have been raring to return to their regular fitness sessions.
"mok added that in line with safe management measures, their clubs are cleaned and sanitised every two hours: "we are committed to doing our part in keeping singapore safe, and we are waiting to hear from the authorities on the required testing regime.
prior to the recent closures, we clean and sanitise our clubs every two hours, which is above and beyond requirements.
we will continue to do so, and take other active steps to ensure the safety of our team and members.
"as for sarah stuart, owner of the f45 training jurong cbd studio, she remains hopeful about the news.
"we welcome the government's decision to allow indoor activities to resume and are prepared to comply with safe-distancing guidelines to ensure our wider community, including staff and members, remain safe.
as we await further details, we will continue to ensure contactless check-in at studios via our app, and ask all members to use our disinfection station upon entering the studio.
our format also allows for members to work at their own station with all the disinfected equipment they need to avoid sharing with any others," said stuart.
brad robinson, ceo of boutique gym chain ritual gym singapore, said that his members are itching to get back to a regular fitness routine, which also means "being able to use fitness equipment and not wearing a mask during exercise. "
"we are thrilled that restrictions are starting to ease, and that the national measures put in place proved to be effective.
the national vaccination drive along with easier testing options should allow us to get back to business as usual in short to medium term, which is very exciting," robinson said upon hearing the positive news.
balancing the new normal:sg phase 2 heightened alert: 10 f&b outlets that deliver familiar comfort food to your homesg phase 2 heightened alert: 11 restaurants that deliver a touch of luxe to your doorstepindonesian restaurant the rice table closing down after 24 yearsfoodies rally to patronise ailing elderly hawkers as diners asked to stay homeinterview: royal pek, co-founder of xian dan chao ren — 'i've sacrificed relationships with people i love'watch more yahoo lifestyle videos on yahoo tv:assembly by natasha brown review – a modern mrs dallowaya sparsely written debut about a black woman preparing for a party examines the disorienting experience of assimilation virtuosic debut .
.
.
natasha brown.
photograph: antonio olmos/the guardianevery year, i take a long walk with friends.
it's one of life's greatest pleasures.
for 16 years, i have met up with five friends for an annual yomp in the english countryside – and we are enjoying that companionship more than everlige nu kan du prøve aktiviva med en introrabat på 50% på første pakke, hvis du tilmelder dig abonnementsordningen – efterfølgende sparer du 20%which girls' name means 'little bear'?
the weekend quiz.
from cube-shaped droppings to theological virtues, test your knowledge with the weekend quizhow the word is passed review: after tulsa, other forgotten atrocitiesin his reckoning with the history of slavery across america, clint smith delivers a corrective both necessary and poetic a recreated slave cabin at thomas jefferson's plantation in charlottesville, virginia.
photograph: andrew lichtenstein/corbis via getty imagesfit in my 40s: what next after the couch to 5k app?.
even when i've done the 5k, failed to maintain my prowess peak and slid inexorably back down to couch, i've never thought twice about going back to the appbedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
blind date: 'she said i could be justin trudeau's younger brother'luca, 24, medical librarian, meets charlie, 26, executive assistant luca and charlie: 'we both come from pretty multicultural backgrounds. '
photograph: sophia evans/the guardiantim dowling: i've escaped the city.
now what do i do?it occurs to me that there used to be more to conversation than just being irritating, but i can't quite remember how it all worked.
i think: stick to what you know – birds and flowers 'that is not a supermarket bird,' i say.
'that's definitely a swallow. '
photograph: alamyindian start-up mylab discovery solutions hopes that its inexpensive covid-19 home test kit -- the country's first -- will help the massive south asian nation better track the pandemic's spread among its 1.
3-billion people.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenthe us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) said friday that emergency department visits for suspected suicide attempts by teenage girls rose significantly last year compared to 2019, highlighting the mental health impact of the pandemic.
i was a little apprehensive about introducing them to each other — mainly because mark and i are not officially partners — but the two hit it off relatively quickly when we met for beers.
like a lot of people these days, bill maher is getting really annoyed with conservative democratic senator joe manchin.
and in a joke we suspect a lot of people will agree with maher said that manchin is pretty much just a republican.
"the most powerful republican in the senate" is how maher put it.
we hardly need to remind people of who manchin is, but just to put the joke in context, he's famous for his obstinate refusal to consider even tepid reform of the filibuster.
this is of course causinden genkender din børstestil og guider dig til bedre tandbørstning.
mød oral-b genius som har indbygget bluetooth.
given that fans already know where "roadrunner: a film about anthony bourdain" will go, documentarian morgan neville ("won't you be my neighbor?")
makes the risky — but poignant and thoughtful — choice to begin at the end.
the celebrity chef, author and television host died by suicide three years ago, so it's inevitable that a melancholy air suffuses what is nevertheless a warm celebration of an unusually full life.
the effortlessly charismatic bourdain never met a camera he couldn't seduce, andthe sanderson sisters are coming back!the movie "asia," written and directed by ruthy pribar, tells the story of a single mother named asia (alena yiv) and her teenage daughter vika (shira haas).
they both must navigate their already distant relationship as vika faces a terminal illness.
the 35-year old asia, who is raising the 17-year old vika on her own after emigrating to israel from russia, works as a nurse at a jerusalem hospital and through the course of the film must face the reality of vika's rapidly deteriorating condition.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it's no secret that television and film production faced wildly unprecedented challenges over the past year due to the covid-19 pandemic, with shows and movies delayed or halted in the middle of shooting, some never to resume again.
but what is interesting to see when the creative teams behind these projects get together is how this communal, challenging experience was tackled by them in very different ways — and yet they all can empathize with each other's plights.
"we were kind of fractured inthe title of this documentary about the making of the mid-90s exploitation picture "kids" is a rebuke to the way that movie was perceived when it came out, as a truthful portrait of a lost generation devoted to sex and drugs.
the survivors of that experience who are interviewed in "the kids" make it clear that what got on the screen was actually the fantasy of the aggressive and manipulative larry clark, who was deep into middle age when he began hanging out with very young skaters around washinmelissa barrera and leslie grace scored the job of a lifetime when, after an audition process that lasted a year and a half, lin-manuel miranda personally facetimed each of them to say they'd been cast in the film version of "in the heights. "
what came next was some of the most difficult choreography barrera and grace would have to execute in their careers.
as the film's female leads, they'd have to command the spotlight in some of the movie's most jaw-dropping dance scenes and set pieces.
for bfolk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersclubhouse isn't just for users to talk about ntfs or "shoot their shot" at potential mates.
the social audio app has become a space where entertainment fandoms thrive.
one of the fastest-growing groups on clubhouse is club bravo, which, as the name suggests, is focused on the cable network that airs "the real housewives," "below deck" and "top chef" franchises, among others.
club bravo celebrates its 3-month anniversary today.
it boasts 9,000+ followers and such impressive programming that clubhnbc's "ultimate slip 'n slide" just became the ultimate s— show.
the upcoming tv competition series, adapted from the classic backyard waterslide by wham-o, has shut down indefinitely after up to 40 crew members fell violently ill during production on a remote ranch in simi valley, california, thewrap has learned.
according to a person with knowledge of the production, the outbreak of "awful explosive diarrhea" left people "collapsing" on set and "being forced to run into port-o-potties. "
at leaour first lady had a conversation with the queen while at a reception for the g7 leaders.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new covid-19 infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said on friday (june 11) that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said in a statement.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel, social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources being overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded so far.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases on friday, the highest this week, bringing the all-time total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deem that the restrictions were successful in reducing the number of infections.
the health ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing, similar to may's mco, where most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols are allowed while social activities remain banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 jabbed on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up the pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin on friday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the two-passenger limit for taxi and private hire cars will be lifted from monday (june 14), in line with singapore's updated restrictions on permissible group sizes, said the land transport authority (lta) on friday.
commercial carpooling services can also resume, added lta in its statement.
all drivers and passengers must still wear masks at all times, said lta.
"taxi and phc (private-hire car) drivers should decline to ferry passengers who do not wear masks.
"paid carpooling services that are matched through licensed ride-hail platforms, such as grabhitch and rydepool, may resume from monday.
however, paid carpooling trips which are arranged through informal platforms such as telegram groups remain illegal.
carpooling trips which do not involve payment, such as those between families, friends or colleagues, are permitted, subject to the prevailing permissible group size of five people, said lta.
the announcement comes a day after the multi-ministry task force on covid-19 said that restrictions on social gatherings will be relaxed in a two-step process from monday.
among other things, people will once again be allowed to gather in groups of up to five, although dining at eateries will be allowed only from june 21. the changes are a result of the falling number of new covid-19 cases reported daily since tightened measures were put in place on may 16. commercial carpooling services had stopped during the period of heightened alert from may 16 to june 13.  taxis and private-hire cars were also not allowed to take more than two passengers during this period unless they are members of the same household.
lta said on friday that taxi drivers, private hire car drivers and passengers are strongly encouraged to bring their tracetogether token or keep their tracetogether app on in their smartphone to facilitate contact tracing efforts.
"early detection of close contacts with confirmed covid-19 cases will help to protect drivers, passengers and their loved ones, and prevent further spread in the community," lta added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the hong kong government on friday enacted new guidelines that allow authorities to censor films on the basis of safeguarding national security, escalating concerns over freedoms in the former british colony.
the government said the changes that give the film censor authority to ban films perceived as promoting or glorifying acts or activities that could endanger national security take effect from friday.
the film censorship authority should stay "vigilant to the portrayal, depiction or treatment of any act or activity which may amount to an offence endangering national security", the government said in a statement.
"any content of a film which is objectively and reasonably capable of being perceived as endorsing, supporting, promoting, such act or activity" will be censored, according to the guideline.
[[nid:522086]]beijing imposed a national security law on hong kong in june that punishes what authorities broadly define as secession, sedition and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail, following a year of sometimes violent pro-democracy demonstrations.
western governments and international human rights groups have expressed concern the security law will crush freedoms in hong kong.
a filmmaker surnamed tang said the amendment would legitimise a crackdown on protest-related films and create a chilling effect on the movie industry.
"movies on social issues will be banned.
it will silence the filmmakers," tang said.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore assistant secretary-general of the national trades union congress (ntuc) melvin yong has been elected unopposed as the new president of the consumers association of singapore (case).
he takes over the reins from mr lim biow chuan, who had helmed the organisation for the past nine years.
mr yong, who is also mp for radin mas and the executive secretary of the national transport workers' union, will head the consumer watchdog for the term 2021 to 2024, case said in a media release on friday (june 11).
the new central committee was also elected and appointed to office, following its 48th annual general meeting on friday, case added.
thanking mr lim for his contributions, mr yong, 49, said: "as case commemorates its 50th anniversary this year, it is timely that we take stock of our achievements and consider how we can continue to be relevant and respond to the needs of consumers.
"i will work closely with the new central committee, management and staff to look into how we can better protect and empower consumers in this new digital age.
"mr lim, 58, who is mp for mountbatten, has served as case president since 2012, and was a vice-president from 2006 to 2012. some of his notable contributions included advocating for the enactment of provisions under the law to protect consumer rights.
for example, after receiving complaints against timeshare companies for pressure sales tactics, he advocated for legislation to better protect consumers against errant timeshare companies.
mr yong, who was elected vice-president in november 2019, had overseen the conceptualisation and development of two key projects, price kaki and fuel kaki, which allow consumers to compare prices of groceries and fuel.
the price kaki application has seen more than 72,000 downloads since it was launched in september 2019, while the fuel kaki website has seen an average of more than 25,000 visitors every month since it was launched in january this year.
mr lim told the straits times that he is still involved in other committees because of his position as a former president.
they include the multilateral healthcare insurance committee and the data protection advisory committee.
he said that he will continue to help out while mr yong adjusts to the new role.
"it is time for a leadership change, and it is always good for the key leader to be refreshed after a number of years.
it is good to look at things with fresh eyes and a new perspective.
sometimes, you can't see your own weaknesses," mr lim added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
by david brunnstrom, tom daly and michael martinawashington/beijing (reuters) -u. s.  secretary of state antony blinken stressed the need for cooperation and transparency over the origins of covid-19 in a call with chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday and raised other contentious topics, including china's treatment of uyghur muslims, hong kong and taiwan.
yang, china's top diplomat, expressed to blinken beijing's serious concern that some people in the united states were spreading the "absurd story" about the coronavirus escaping from a wuhan laboratory, chinese state media said.
yang, head of the central foreign affairs commission of china's ruling communist party, also told blinken that washington should handle taiwan-related issues "carefully and appropriately," state broadcaster cctv reported.
the call came ahead of a g7 summit in britain attended by u. s.  president joe biden that is expected to be dominated by washington-led efforts to counter china's growing influence.
the world's two largest economies are deeply at odds over issues ranging from trade and technology to human rights and the coronavirus.
washington should work with beijing to put ties "back on track," yang said.
yang, who had a fiery exchange with blinken in alaska in march during the biden administration's first high-level meeting with its chinese counterparts, said beijing firmly opposed what he called "abominable actions" over the pandemic, which he said were being used to slander china, cctv said.
the state department said the diplomats also discussed north korea policy and that blinken expressed u. s.  concerns over the deterioration of democratic norms in hong kong and what washington describes as the genocide of muslim uyghurs in china's xinjiang region.
blinken also called on china to stop its pressure campaign against taiwan and to release "wrongfully detained" u. s.  and canadian citizens, it said in a statement.
'respect facts and science'the state department said the discussion on north korea an issue on which the united states is keen for more chinese action to press its ally and neighbor to give up its nuclear weapons focused on the need for beijing and washington "to work together for the denuclearization of the korean peninsula.
"it said the two diplomats also continued discussions on shared global challenges, including iran and myanmar, and the climate crisis.
"addressing the covid-19 pandemic, the secretary stressed the importance of cooperation and transparency regarding the origin of the virus, including the need for who phase 2 expert-led studies in china," it said, referring to the world health organization.
bonnie glaser, an asia expert at the german marshall fund of the united states think tank, said that although the agenda included potential areas of cooperation, the conversation appeared dominated by contentious issues.
she said yang's call for washington to work with beijing to put ties "back on track" indicated china was still putting the onus on the united states for the problems in the relationship.
"that's a non-starter, but demonstrates that the chinese are sticking to their tried-and-true diplomatic approaches, even though they are not successful.
"a report on the origins of covid-19 by a u. s.  government national laboratory concluded the hypothesis of a viral leak from a wuhan lab was plausible and deserved further investigation, the wall street journal said on monday.
"we urge the united states to respect facts and science, refrain from politicizing the issue .
.
.
and focus on international cooperation in the fight against the pandemic," yang said.
his comments on taiwan followed a visit to the chinese-claimed island last weekend by three u. s.  senators on a u. s.  military aircraft.
they met taiwanese president tsai ing-wen and announced the donation to taiwan of 750,000 doses of covid-19 vaccine, drawing a sharp rebuke from china's defense ministry.
in addition to coinciding with biden's first overseas trip as president to attend the g7 summit, the call comes as washington has been pushing policies to address challenges from china.
in the past eight days, biden updated an executive order banning u. s.  investment in companies linked to china's military and rolled out steps aimed at china to shore up u. s.  supply chains.
his trade representative katherine tai held a call with taiwan, the pentagon wrapped up a china policy review, and the senate passed a sweeping package of china-focused legislation.
eric sayers, a visiting fellow at the conservative american enterprise institute, said all that amounted to good timing for the administration to have an exchange with beijing.
"the white house should feel more confident taking these calls and letting beijing run down their stale talking points," sayers said.
(reporting by beijing newsroom and doina chiacu, david brunnstrom and michael martina in washington; writing by tom daly; editing by alex richardson, mark heinrich, angus macswan, paul simao and daniel wallis)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new coronavirus infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said yesterday that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said.
he did not say which period of time the average daily figure of 6,871 was based on.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel and social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire after next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded in total.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases yesterday, the highest this week, bringing the total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deemed that the curbs were successful in reducing infection numbers.
the ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow, with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed to reopen.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing to something similar to last month's mco, in which most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols were allowed, while social activities remained banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 receiving jabs on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
malaysia yesterday started to deploy four mobile vaccine trucks to inoculate some 7,200 residents of public housing projects in kuala lumpur, as the country races to speed up its vaccination drive.
the three-day programme, which will run until tomorrow, involves four areas in the kuala lumpur federal territory.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore last year, several countries in south-east asia were among the poster boys for their deft handling of the covid-19 pandemic.
now, they are battling a resurgence in infections.
case numbers are still low compared with other hot spots like india and brazil but governments in the region, nonetheless, have initiated lockdowns and ramped up testing.
they have also accelerated vaccination drives by rolling out public awareness campaigns, ironing out flaws in previous policies, scaling up inoculation efforts and dangling incentives all of which are part of the effort to protect their people and open up economies battered by the pandemic.
"south-east asia has done a wonderful job during the first wave of the pandemic but people later lowered their guard and this gave the virus free rein on the ground.
the governments have tried to ramp up their vaccination campaigns but with the exception of singapore they still have a long way to go," dr abhishek rimal, kuala lumpur-based regional emergency health coordinator at the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies (ifrc), told the straits times.
singapore is the region's leader in vaccinations, with more than 30 per cent of the population fully vaccinated.
it has allowed children from the age of 12 to be vaccinated and month-long restrictions put in place to combat a spike in cases look set to be eased from monday (june 14).
but many of singapore's neighbours are hampered by slow progress in their vaccination campaigns, with most having inoculated less than 10 per cent of their population.
several countries are now working to speed up their efforts.
indonesia, which has given out more than 30 million shots mostly to the elderly, health workers and those with disabilities is allowing old folk to turn up at any designated facility for a jab without prior registration, while offering shots to the young if they help bring in those aged 60 years and above to be inoculated.
indonesia has asked china for technical assistance to help it become a regional production hub for the covid-19 vaccine.
a man receiving a dose of vaccine during a mass inoculation exercise in banda aceh, indonesia, on june 9, 2021.  photo: epa-efe
malaysia, which is in the throes of another lockdown after registering record-high cases and deaths in recent weeks, has opened up mega vaccination centres to inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
vaccine trucks have been deployed to areas where people might find it difficult to get to an immunisation centre.
close to four per cent of malaysia's 32 million population a total of 1.
22 million are now fully vaccinated.
the government has said that 16 million vaccine doses will arrive in the next two months.
thailand has set a target to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
it has announced plans to open up the tourist resort of phuket next month for fully vaccinated tourists.
the thai government has also allowed private and local administrative organisations to procure covid-19 vaccines, but only through approved agencies such as the national vaccine institute and the thai red cross society.
health workers attending to a woman about to receive a dose of covid-19  vaccine at an inoculation centre set up at the central eastville shopping mall in bangkok, on june 7, 2021.  photo: bloomberg
cambodia has mobilised the army to inoculate its citizens and the one millionth and two millionth vaccinated person received 10 million riel (s$3,244) each.
laos has banned the purchase of covid-19 vaccines by private entities in order to stave off complaints about inequality in the country, while neighbouring vietnam once a model for its successful handling of the pandemic has appealed to the public to donate to a covid-19 vaccine fund as it struggles to contain a new wave of the disease.
an electrical box painted with a covid-19 theme in hanoi on june 7, 2021.  about 16 electrical boxes in ha ba trung district have been painted this way to promote hand washing and the wearing of face masks.
photo: epa-efe
the philippines has extended vaccinations to children aged between 12 and 15, while private firms are allowed to procure vaccines for their workers without having to donate part of their shipments to the government.
in order to help shore up confidence in the vaccine programme and tackle the issue of vaccine hesitancy, local celebrities were roped in to get their jabs publicly, while some cities and towns went a step further by offering everything from cattle to land to property in a bid to entice people to get their jabs.
registration booths set up inside a cinema complex for citizens preparing to be vaccinated in san juan city, metro manila, on june 1, 2021.  photo: reuters
despite their best efforts to bump up vaccinations, countries in the region still face various challenges, chief among them getting enough vaccines.
it is estimated that the region will need some 1.
4 billion doses to cover the entire population of more than 650 million, leading some analysts to caution that this would be a formidable challenge since the global demand for vaccines outstrips supply.
some countries are only receiving their first stocks now.
impoverished timor leste received its first batch of vaccine doses from covax, comprising 24,000 astrazeneca doses, only on april 5 this year.
it received 100,000 doses of sinovac vaccines from china on june 7. covax is the world health organisation-led initiative to secure vaccine supplies for developing countries.
"slow vaccine roll-out will have critical consequences for south-east asia," ms hanh nguyen and mr james borton wrote in the international intelligence publication, geopolitical monitor, on may 25.
"for a region that relies heavily on export and tourism, the low vaccine coverage plus closed border policy mean countries will not open their economies soon, thus missing out on economic opportunities as the west gradually reopens.
"another issue has been competition between the west and china as beijing expands its vaccine diplomacy in the region.
apart from sales, china has donated vaccines to cambodia, laos, myanmar and the philippines.
"as of right now, china stands out in its vaccine diplomacy efforts a move that the global superpower will likely use to solidify its position within the south-east asia," mr shazwan mustafa kamal, a senior associate with political risk and public consultancy vriens & partners, told st. the united states has recently announced plans to donate seven million doses to south asia and south-east asia, while the g-7 is expected to donate one billion vaccine doses to the world's poorest countries.
but mr shazwan said western powers appeared to be playing catch-up to china.
"south-east asian nations will be in an unenviable position in balancing china's overtures as well as their relationships with the us," he added.
dr kevin s. y.  tan, a visiting senior fellow at iseas-yusof ishak institute who has written about vaccination efforts in the region, said it is too early to ascertain whether china's vaccine diplomacy will lead to any significant geopolitical shifts.
"if the pandemic drags on and if other vaccine sources are somehow limited, there will naturally be a greater dependency on chinese vaccines.
such vaccine dependency, in the long run, may bolster china's standing among south-east asian nations," he told st. logistics is another major issue in a region marked by vastly different terrain, from modern cities to rural mountainous areas and far-flung islands.
this comes on top of poor infrastructure and limited resources to distribute and store vaccines, a significant roadblock for rapid deployment, especially for last-mile delivery.
experts fear that if this is not overcome, the overall recovery for any nation will be difficult and time-consuming, especially if coronavirus variants lead to new waves of infection.
as such, it is important that governments ensure the necessary infrastructure is in place, said iseas' dr tan, especially for vaccines with ultra-cold storage requirements.
"but if such infrastructure is unrealistic at the moment, then a decision to use more 'logistically friendly' vaccines may be a pragmatic and feasible approach," said dr tan, who is also an adjunct faculty member at the school of global studies in thailand's thammasat university.
another issue that could hamper the region's success in tamping down the virus is the ongoing civil unrest in myanmar.
political instability in the country has exacerbated an already overstretched healthcare system and observers fear it is in danger of turning into the next covid-19 epicentre.
locals told st the military government has set up vaccination centres but not many people are turning up for the jabs due to high distrust of the military junta's capability to administer, store and transport the vaccines.
many have also refused to get vaccinated as a mark of protest against the junta.
"i am not getting vaccinated as i do not trust the quality and efficacy of the vaccines after the coup.
my friends and family pretty much hold the same view as well," investment analyst ye salween, 31, told st. the jury is still out on whether the region can be fully vaccinated by the end of next year, a target set for the world by british prime minister boris johnson.
ifrc's dr abhishek described it as an "ambitious" target while iseas' dr tan said to do so would require a "colossal effort" which can be achieved, but only with support from foreign countries.
"this is because not a single country in the region has come up with its own home-made vaccine against covid-19 so far.
as a region, we are still dependent on supplies and support from sources beyond south-east asia and this is a glaring vulnerability that may need to be addressed," said dr tan.
professor paul tambyah, president of the asia-pacific society of clinical microbiology and infection, said locally manufactured vaccines were "the obvious answer", noting that middle-income countries such as indonesia, thailand and malaysia had well established vaccine-manufacturing capacity.
"the key has to be the trips waiver," he told st, referring to the world trade organisation's (wto) agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights that governs the transfer of property like movie rights or vaccine-manufacturing specifics.
"with the trips waiver on patents, south-east asian countries could rapidly scale up vaccine production.
"he added that, without the constraints of the patents, mass vaccination could be rolled out very quickly the way measles and polio vaccines, which were locally made, led to the virtual elimination of these diseases.
as of now though, reports say malaysia and the philippines will experience delays in the delivery of the astrazeneca vaccine manufactured in thailand.
that is going to exacerbate the situation in the philippines, in particular, because some vaccination sites in the capital, manila, have been closed due to the shortage of vaccines.
mr jose ma luis montesclaros, an associate research fellow at the s.  rajaratnam school of international studies, has suggested that asean should support the private sector to develop vaccine production capacity.
"i feel that expanding the supplies of vaccines is something that benefits not only the vaccine- producing/recipient countries, but the world over, given the interconnected nature of global trade and investments," he told st. "the sooner countries are able to solve the health problem, the sooner they can begin working on economic recovery," he added.
• allowing the elderly to go to any designated vaccination facility without prior registration.
• younger indonesians are eligible for shots if they help bring in those aged 60 years and older to get vaccinated.
• aiming to become a regional production hub for covid-19 vaccine.
• set up mega vaccination centres that can inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
• deploying vaccine trucks to rural communities.
• government has pledged 16 million doses of vaccines in the next two months.
• targeting to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
• shopping malls and supermarkets are among the 25 vaccination sites in bangkok.
• aiming to open up phuket for vaccinated tourists next month.
• approved vaccinations for children between the ages of 12 and 15.
• several towns and cities are offering cows, bags of rice, land and properties to entice people to get jabs.
• deploying vaccine buses to reach poorer, less accessible districts.
• residents sent text messages urging them to contribute to a covid-19 vaccine fund.
• looking to buy covid-19 vaccine production technology and build a plant to supply vaccines for the covax programme.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: a new chinese law against foreign sanctions is designed to boost beijing's power against international pressure, but could spark compliance dilemmas for foreign businesses operating in the world's second-largest economy.
it comes just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest.
here is what we know about the law so far:what is it?the anti-foreign sanctions law was rushed into force on thursday (jun 10).
it aims to protect chinese individuals or organisations in the event that a country "uses various pretexts or its laws" to take "discriminatory" action against them.
no country is specifically named.
but beijing has accused western nations of "suppressing" china's development, especially the united states.
it has lashed out at "illegal and unreasonable" sanctions over human rights and flagged an urgent need to fight back.
what could it do?countermeasures listed in the law include denying visas, deportation, or seizing assets of those who formulate or comply with sanctions against chinese businesses or officials.
it rules that authorities are not only able to target individuals and groups but can also take aim at their family members.
the law is broad and "significantly increases the punitive power of china's anti-sanctions measures", said university of hong kong associate professor angela zhang.
"the broad scope of this framework means that lots of folks, like scholars, pundits, think tanks, could be sanctioned for supporting sanctions on china," warned julian ku, an expert on international law at hofstra university.
how could it impact business?senior executives of entities on a countermeasure list could also come under pressure, with potential implications for a large number of people and businesses.
"affected businesses could lose entire access to the chinese market, and chinese citizens and institutions will need to cut ties with affected ngos and think tanks," zhang told afp.
the law could also create severe compliance issues for multinational companies.
part of the legislation prohibits those in china from going along with designated foreign sanctions.
it acts in a similar way to a european blocking statute "which nullified the effect of us iran sanctions within the eu", said ku.
this puts foreign businesses in a bind if they cannot legally comply with both us sanctions and chinese prohibitions.
why now?the law builds on earlier measures which prevent companies and individuals from complying with foreign sanctions targeting china.
in an explainer on the national people's congress website, an official said the law was passed in a short period of time because there was "an urgent need to counter the hegemonism and power politics of certain western countries".
the law will help "counteract the containment and suppression" china faces, the official added.
beijing has long complained about us sanctions and trade restrictions affecting chinese companies.
but in recent months biden has stepped up us criticism over intellectual property theft and alleged human rights abuses in hong kong and the northwestern xinjiang region.
how much of a threat is it?ku warned the law had "some reasonable parts, and some troubling parts".
the section allowing for retaliatory sanctions "is unprecedented compared to other countries' sanctions regimes", he said.
foreign companies are regularly caught in the crosshairs of tension between china and western nations, including recent nationalist attacks on fashion brand h&m for voicing concern about forced labour claims in xinjiang.
zhang said she believes chinese authorities will not immediately wield the new powers, given that anxiety among foreign businesses could lead to more decoupling.
"if, however, foreign governments continue to press on with aggressive sanctions, then i believe china will start deploying those anti-sanctions laws to demonstrate their coercive power," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
chinese ride-hailing company didi revealed a $1.
6 billion net loss for 2020 as it moves ahead with plans for a u. s.  initial public offering.
the company in its first public filing for the ipo listed the offering as $100 million, a placeholder that will change when the company discloses terms for the share sale.
didi filed thursday under the business name xiaoju kuaizhi inc. , with goldman sachs group inc. , morgan stanley and jpmorgan chase & co.  leading the offering.
listen: fion li, bloomberg's team leader for asia deals, discusses didi's ipo plan with juliette saly and doug krizner on bloomberg daybreak asia.
didi, one of the largest investments in softbank group corp. 's portfolio, accelerated its listing plans after its business rebounded as the coronavirus pandemic ebbed in china.
the company has been considering seeking a valuation of as much as $70 billion to $100 billion in the ipo, bloomberg news reported in april.
in recent months, didi has been trading at a valuation of about $95 billion on the secondary market, said people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because the information was private.
the company last raised funding at a $62 billion value last year, according to pitchbook.
a representative for didi declined to comment on the company's valuation.
softbank's vision fund, uber technologies inc.  and tencent holdings ltd.  are currently among didi's biggest shareholders with a combined stake of about 41%, its filing shows.
didi co-founder will wei cheng holds 7% of the shares.
softbank's 21.
5% stake could be worth $15 billion or more at the targeted valuation range, although that stake could be diluted in the offering.
the japanese company invested more than $10 billion in didi, bloomberg news has reported.
while didi has expanded into 15 countries, most of its revenue still comes from its china mobility business.
didi reported revenue of $21.
6 billion in 2020.  in the first quarter of this year, as china recovered from the pandemic, revenue more than doubled from the year before to hit $6.
4 billion.
the company also turned a profit for the quarter, reporting net income of $837 million.
the murder of two passengers by didi drivers in the summer of 2018 sparked public outrage and the mass deleting of the company's app.
didi's founders cheng and jean qing liu called the deaths the company's darkest moment.
"in the summer of 2018, two tragic safety incidents occurred on our 'hitch' platform," they wrote in a letter to investors included in the filing.
"these shook us to our core.
we felt an immense sense of sadness and responsibility and began a period of deep self-reflection.
"the company cited safety concerns among the risks to its business, saying failure to ensure safety could cause it to lose customers.
the company said in its filing that, after the deaths, it suspended the hitch carpooling service for more than a year to develop procedures to protect riders and drivers.
other potential risks for didi line up with those of their ride-hailing competitors around the world.
rivals could undercut didi's customer prices or poach drivers with better earning potential, the company said in the filing, and its business model would suffer if their army of drivers were re-classified as employees.
the company also cited the possibility of antitrust fines or regulations, as well as the chance its share price could drop because of negative sentiment in the u. s.  about chinese companies.
an ipo would cap a remarkable turnaround for a company that first ran afoul of regulators and then faced the effects of the pandemic.
didi seeks to tap the same investor enthusiasm that propelled this year's tech debuts by chinese video service kuaishou technology and south korean e-commerce pioneer coupang inc. didi's ipo would also mark a monumental year for chinese tech ipos.
kuaishou raised more than $6 billion via a hong kong debut in january, while bytedance ltd.  itself is expected to put in motion a listing later this year.
didi was founded in 2012 by former alibaba group holding ltd.  staffer cheng.
it clashed with uber in china for years until the u. s.  firm retreated in 2016, selling its operation in the country to didi.
the company is looking for capital to invest in technology, grow its presence in some international markets and introduce new products, according to the filing.
it is planning to make its debut in western europe this year, bloomberg news reported in february, and it's invested heavily in so-called community buying, one of the hottest e-commerce growth areas in china.
didi, which remains the dominant player in china, is also looking to leverage that lead to expand into adjacent arenas from autonomous driving to electric vehicles.
the company said in thursday's filing that it plans to list its american depositary shares under the symbol didi, although it didn't specify on which exchange.
— with assistance by coco liu
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore staff who work in higher-risk settings with unmasked customers will have to undergo regular covid-19 testing, with the government covering the cost of these tests for the next three months.
these include workers at dine-in food and beverage (f&b) establishments, saunas and gyms and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.
mandatory fast and easy testing (fet) will start from july for those working at dine-in f&b establishments, as dining in with a maximum group size of five will be allowed to resume from june 21. this expanded testing regime was announced on thursday (june 10) by the multi-ministry task force tackling covid-19, alongside the relaxation of measures in two stages.
fet uses tests such as antigen rapid tests, which can produce results in about 30 minutes and can be done on-site.
all workers will have to undergo testing, regardless of their vaccination status.
the ministry of health said fet capacity will be ramped up aggressively in the coming months, with mandatory testing progressively rolled out to larger establishments first and extended to smaller businesses later on.
finance minister lawrence wong, who co-chairs the multi-ministry task force on covid-19, said that the government is working out the details of this new testing regime, such as the frequency of testing and whether it can be self-administered, and more information will be announced later on.
the regime is part of measures which singapore is taking to minimise virus transmission and the risk of large clusters breaking out, as it reopens in a "cautious and controlled" manner, he said.
the government will cover the cost of testing over the next three months, mr wong noted, adding: "we are doing that during this period because it is important to get everyone tested regularly and put this in place.
"beyond that, employers will have to start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their bcps (business continuity planning).
"measures which f&b operators have to take in line with safe distancing rules include ensuring that their restaurants have "good ventilation" and groups of diners are seated at least 1m apart.
rostered routine testing is already being done in a number of higher-risk settings in singapore, including migrant worker dormitories, construction worksites, shipyards, air and sea ports, hospitals and nursing homes.
individuals, whether vaccinated or not, are tested once every seven days or once every 14 days, depending on their risk level.
read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
japan quietly shifts its stance on taiwan amid growing concerns over beijing's economic and military might.
tokyo, japan – the japanese government has injected itself into the increasingly tense confrontation in the taiwan straits.
last friday, japan sent taiwan 1.
24 million doses of astrazeneca's covid-19 jab, after taiwan's president tsai ing-wen accused china of blocking the territory's access to vaccines amid its worst coronavirus outbreak since the pandemic began.
beijing regards taiwan – a self-governing island that lies 161km (100 miles) off the chinese coast – as part of its territory and has not ruled out the use of force to achieve its goal.
it has taken an increasingly assertive stance since tsai was first elected in 2016, claiming that she wants independence for the island's 23.
6 million people, and tensions have risen as traditional allies, including the united states, rallied to support taiwan.
japan has for decades taken a quieter approach.
but with china's growing economic and military might and its continuing challenge to japanese sovereignty over the senkaku islands, known to the chinese as the diaoyutai islands, the government in tokyo is changing tack.
"the japanese conservatives have really seized upon the taiwan issue as a way of drawing lines with the chinese," said daniel sneider, lecturer in east asian studies at stanford university.
china's rise has worried many in japan.
in recent years, beijing has become increasingly assertive in the asia pacific region, showcasing its military might in the east china sea and the south china sea to back its maritime and territorial claims in the disputed seas.
taiwan, which also lays claim to the south china sea, has also felt the heat from beijing.
over the past year, the chinese military has sent fighter jets into the island's airspace on a near-daily basis, with 25 chinese military aircraft flying through on april 12. in a bid to counter china's growing clout, japan is forging security ties with countries like australia and india, and reinforcing its alliance with the united states, which also sees beijing as a strategic competitor.
when us president joe biden and japanese prime minister yoshihide suga met in washington, dc, in april, china was the top focus of their talks.
and for the first time in more than half a century, the leaders' joint statement included a reference to "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait".
additionally, when japan's defence ministry released a draft of its annual "white paper" last month, it mentioned the taiwan issue for the first time ever.
"the stability of the situation surrounding taiwan is important for the security of japan and the stability of the international community," the draft document said.
beijing condemned the japan-us stance on taiwan as interference in its internal affairs, accusing the two countries of "ganging up to form cliques and fanning bloc confrontation".
chinese officials have also previously described concerns over its military and economic clout as part of a "cold war mentality" that seeks to contain it.
it is in this broad context that japan, which once ruled taiwan as a colony, jumped to the island's aid as it scrambled to secure supplies of the coronavirus vaccine.
as sneider put it, "it's about demonstrating that japan has an interest in the continued de facto independence and security of taiwan.
it's that simple.
"beijing has denounced japan's moves.
when the first reports of tokyo considering sending vaccines to taipei emerged in late may, chinese foreign ministry spokesperson wang wenbin responded sharply.
"we are firmly against those who exploit the pandemic to put on political shows or even meddle in china's internal affairs," he said.
"i've noticed that japan can barely ensure adequate supply of vaccines at home.
"he added, "i would like to stress that vaccine assistance should be restored to its origin purpose, which is to save lives, and should not be reduced to a tool for selfish political gains.
"wang's contention that politics are involved was not entirely misplaced.
several reports in both the japanese and taiwanese media highlighted the role that former japanese prime minister shinzo abe, a longtime "china hawk," had played in expediting the delivery of the vaccines to taiwan.
reporting on june 3, the sankei shinbun newspaper said abe, who stepped down last september, had been closely involved in the discussions and noted taiwan's generous donations to japan at the time of the devastating earthquake and tsunami of 2011. in taiwan, the japanese donation was a triumph for tsai's government.
tsai, who received global praise for her handling of the pandemic early on, is facing public anger after a sudden surge in covid-19 infections that began last month.
to date, the island has recorded 11,968 infections and 333 deaths, of which the vast majority were reported in the past month.
with less than 3 percent of the taiwanese public vaccinated, anger is growing over the shortage of covid-19 jabs.
taiwan says the crisis has been compounded by china.
on may 26, tsai accused china of using its influence to block a large delivery of the pfizer-biontech vaccine.
beijing has denied the claim, however, and says taiwan had in fact refused to accept its offer of vaccines.
wang, the spokesman for the chinese foreign ministry, also accused tsai's democratic progressive party (dpp) of prioritising "political manipulation over anti-epidemic cooperation".
lev nachman, a visiting scholar at the national taiwan university, said the dpp faced a dilemma.
"the reality is that taiwan needs vaccines," he said, "and the catch-22 is that the dpp government really can't politically afford to take vaccines from the prc.
"if the independence-leaning dpp were to turn to the mainland for help, he noted, it could undermine the party's own legitimacy as a self-governing force.
but "by taking vaccines from japan, that's much less politically loaded than taking vaccines from the prc, which is, of course, a major win for taiwan," said nachman.
moreover, the process of bringing in the vaccines from japan allowed various rival dpp politicians to make a rare show of unity, signalling that they had acted responsibly for the benefit of the people – although taiwanese authorities still have quite some distance to go to secure vaccines for the island's entire population.
even the supporters of the beijing-friendly opposition party, the kuomintang, are feeling "quiet appreciation" for japan, said nachman.
many taiwanese also took to social media to show their gratitude when news of the japanese donation came.
several people posted photos of themselves travelling in japan in the pre-pandemic era as a means to demonstrate their appreciation for and closeness with their northern island neighbours, according to brian chee-shing hioe, editor of new bloom, an online magazine covering youth culture and politics in taiwan and the asia-pacific.
hioe also weighed in on the wider strategic context, noting that japan's donation was followed a couple of days later by a us pledge of a further 750,000 doses.
"the us was coordinating this behind the scenes," hioe asserted, "to cement this relation between japan and taiwan, which is useful for regional security, for american purposes.
"after months without cases, initial response was a 'disaster', island's former health minister tells al jazeera.
move comes after us secretary of state antony blinken signalled a possible resumption of economic talks with taiwan.
us donation comes after taiwan accused china of trying to block the island from accessing vaccines internationally.
researchers say china is behind much of the disinformation, which authorities worry will put lives at risk.
follow al jazeera english:
published: 2:00pm, 12 jun, 2021updated: 2:07pm, 12 jun, 2021
