Ion Orchard to close for 4 days from June 12 due to Covid-19 cases; visitors to mall to get free swab tests, Singapore News & Top Stories.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore employers here have no legal power to force staff members to disclose their covid-19 vaccination status or demand that they get inoculated.
experts and employers noted that while vaccination is strongly encouraged in singapore, it remains voluntary, although there are several ways people can be encouraged to get a jab.
these will come more into focus as singapore begins rolling out covid-19 vaccinations to the wider population, with bookings open to singaporeans aged 12 to 39 from friday (june 11).
singapore human resources institute (shri) president low peck kem told the straits times that unless there is a business need, employers should not compel staff to disclose if they have had a jab or take punitive action against those who do not get inoculated or refuse to update their vaccination status.
"even if there is a strong business need, such as needing to know in order to determine if the employee can travel for business or to deploy to higher-risk front-line facing roles, do explain clearly why the company needs to know the status and generally, most employees will comply," she said.
institute for human resource professionals (ihrp) chief executive mayank parekh said that bosses should not use non-vaccination as a reason to terminate employment as there could be medical reasons for why a staff member did not get a shot.
mr tan wei ming, senior associate at law firm cms holborn asia, said that if employers want to keep records on vaccinated employees that contain personal data such as names, they must do so in accordance with the personal data protection act and other applicable data protection laws.
"for these reasons, companies in singapore are unlikely to make their employees declare their vaccination status at this juncture," he added.
wongpartnership joint head of employment practice jenny tsin said staff members should not face discrimination arising from their vaccination status, given that its voluntary.
however, there could be circumstances that warrant a different approach, such as for jobs involving higher risk of exposure to covid-19, she added.
in this instance, it could be more justified to limit return to the workplace to only vaccinated employees.
investment bank goldman sachs recently ordered its employees in the united states to report their covid-19 vaccination status as part of their plans to return to the office, afp reported on thursday.
st understands that goldman sachs is not requiring staff here to report their vaccination status, and that most are still working from home.
while professional services firm ey strongly encourages its eligible staff to get vaccinated, it does not require them to declare their status given that immunisation is not mandatory, said the singapore and brunei managing partner max loh.
uob human resources head dean tong said the bank has been encouraging staff in critical roles to get vaccinated since the government announced its roll-out to essential workers in the financial sector in march.
st understands that uob does not track the vaccination status of employees.
meanwhile, sembcorp industries has introduced an app that provides voluntary updates on a person's vaccination status.
the app, which was developed in-house, is also used to obtain online approval for essential facility visits.
an amazon spokesman said that the company's employees and associates are generally not required to declare their vaccination status, except for staff members who are travelling to singapore from overseas.
the firm also provides a cash benefit to front-line employees and associates who are paid by the hour when they get their vaccination off-site.
shri's ms low and mr parekh from ihrp said employers can encourage immunisation by communicating the benefits to their staff as well as incentivising vaccination through means such as time off after getting the jabs and giving workers a care package.
mr samir bedi, asean workforce advisory leader at ey, noted that it would not be surprising to see employers including vaccination as a pre-requisite in job descriptions in future, particularly for front-line positions that require face-to-face interactions.
"this not only protects employees and their families, but also ensures the public's safety.
employees who travel for work may also need to comply with pre-travel vaccination travel regulations," he said.
but companies must remain inclusive and consider the needs of individuals who may not be able to get vaccinated due to health reasons, mr bedi said.
he added: "this requires employers to continue with precautionary safe workplace measures while ensuring equal career opportunities for all.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: two eateries have been ordered to close, and two supermarkets fined for breaching covid-19 safe management measures, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment on friday (jun 11).
the closure orders will take effect when dining-in is allowed to resume, said the ministry.
the first eatery ordered to close is the starz bistro at 66 east coast road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 22, and consume alcohol after 10.
30pm.
the urban redevelopment authority (ura) has ordered the establishment to close for 10 days.
the second eatery is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant at 367/369 beach road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 28 at 9.
30pm.
as this is its third offence, ura has ordered the establishment to close for 30 days.
singaporeimplemented tighter measures from may 16 to jun 13, including barring dining-in at food and beverage outlets.
two supermarkets were fined s$1,000 each for not having staff members to oversee the safe entry checkpoints: giant supermarket, located at bedok shopping complex and the cold storage outlet at siglap v. mse also said that since phase 2 (heightened alert) was implemented,77 individuals have been finedfor breaching safe management measures at parks.
agencies will also step up enforcement at hotspots where safe management measures are more frequently breached, including parks and hdb common areas, the ministry said.
on thursday, the ministry of health (moh) said that dining in can resume on jun 21 if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, as part ofsingapore's plan to move to phase 3 (heightened alert).
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's movement control order, known as mco 3.
0, will be extended for another two weeks from jun 15 to jun 28. senior minister for defence ismail sabri yaakob announced in a statement on friday (jun 11) that the decision to extend the mco 3.
0 was made as daily case numbers still exceeded 5,000.
"the positive/negative list (permitted and prohibited activities) and standard operating procedures (sops) for every manufacturing, business and industrial activity still remains as announced before this," he said after attending a national security council meeting.
in may, a nationwide mco was re-imposed in malaysia amid a third wave of covid-19 cases.
known as mco 3.
0, all economic sectors were allowed to operate during the period but cross-district and interstate travel as well as social, sports and educational activities were prohibited.
stricter restrictions on the economic and social sectors were later announced on may 21 as community cases continued to rise.
the emergence of new variants have also delayed efforts to flatten the infection curve, the prime minister's office had said.
on may 28, prime minister muhyiddin yassin announced that the country would go intototal lockdownfor 14 days beginning jun 1, with only essential economic and service sectors allowed to carry on with their operations.
case number breached the 9,000-mark on may 29, before the lockdown measures brought daily infections down gradually.
on friday, a total of 6,846 cases were reported.
if the first phase of total lockdown could reduce the number of daily cases, then the country would ease into a four-week second phase, where more economic sectors would be allowed to reopen.
phase 3 would be similar to the movement control order (mco) that has been enforced in the country, where nearly all economic sectors are allowed to operate with strict sops.
the progression from one phase to another would be subject to the ministry of health's risk assessments.
as of friday, malaysia's national covid-19 tally stood at 646,411. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: owners of gyms and fitness studios have welcomed news that indoor mask-off activities will be allowed to resume on jun 21, describing it as a relief after weeks of tightened curbs.
the easing of restrictions was announced on thursday (jun 10) as part of singapore's plans to enterphase 3 (heightened alert)after a fall in the number of covid-19 community cases.
this will take place in two phases: social gathering group sizes will be increased from jun 14; and if the situation remains under control, other restrictions such as the resumption of dining-in and other higher-risk mask-off activities will be allowed a week later on jun 21. mr shane parsons, the co-owner of fitness studio f45 lower peirce reservoir, said the news was a pleasant surprise as he had been "prepared for the worst".
"we were all feeling kind of lost every time these lockdown restrictions happened.
so .
.
.
at least we feel we're moving in a positive direction again.
"by jun 21, it'll be over six weeks with nearly zero revenue – that's been tough .
.
.
ultimately, we can see the light at the end of the tunnel," said mr parsons.
under current tightened measures forphase two (heightened alert), from may 16 to jun 13, only low-intensity physical activities are allowed at gyms and fitness studios – with masks on at all times.
that means studios focusing on high-intensity workouts, such as mr parson's, have been unable to operate as per normal.
the same goes for ritual, a gym chain with four locations in singapore, which has been operating at 20 per cent of its usual capacity, said its ceo, mr brad robinson.
"for us to be able to edge closer back to our typical business model (of high-intensity workouts) and normalcy was obviously met with happiness across the board.
"mr saumik bera, the director of real yoga, added: "i felt like i could breathe (again), because this phase 2 was like a coma to me, and all of us.
"new measures in placewhen indoor mask-off sports activities resume, participants will need to be at least 2m apart from each other.
indoor and outdoor sports classes can also be held in multiple groups of five – with a cap of 30 people, including the instructor.
the groups have to be at least 3m apart.
businesses cna spoke to said they are prepared for this, as similar social distancing rules were introduced when singapore entered phase 2 last year.
come jun 21, employees of such places will also have to be regularly tested for covid-19, due to the higher-risk settings.
like other fitness studio owners, real yoga's mr bera agreed with the need for this: "we see quite a number of people every day and don't know who carries what kinds of viruses, so i'm supportive of this that the frontliners should be responsible to protect society.
"the government will cover the cost of these tests for the next three months.
beyond that, employers will have to "start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their business continuity plans", said finance minister lawrence wong on thursday at a press conference by the multi-ministry task force on covid-19.
these costs,  on top of capacity constraints, will have an impact on business, said f45 lower peirce reservoir's mr parsons.
but he added that the studio will do "whatever it takes to keep moving forward".
ritual's mr robinson also said: "we're all for anything that allows our business to get back to pre-pandemic revenue, or as close to it as possible.
"our cost base has gone up and revenue has gone down so that's obviously a double whammy.
but again .
.
.
you adapt to just survive and move ahead.
"he added that details of the testing regime, including costs, have yet to be revealed.
ms yang jiamin, the founder of jyan yoga, suggested that the subsidies should be extended.
"three months is definitely not enough, considering covid has been around for a year already and we don't know when it's going to go away, or how this is going to be the new norm for us.
"to be more reasonable, probably about six months to a year (of subsidies) would be good.
"another suggestion from mr parson: "if gyms and fitness studios are really considered higher-risk settings, then workers should be prioritised for early vaccination.
"adapting to phase 3 (heightened alert)fitness studios are gearing up to welcome more members, but they do not expect business to bounce back immediately.
real yoga's mr bera said he anticipates that "many will still be afraid to come out of the house".
so while there will be more in-person classes, online classes will be kept as a staple.
jyan yoga's ms yang is also working on ways to bring members back.
"we are adding new classes to our curriculum to entice people to come down to the studio," she said, adding that they are also working on new merchandise that will compliment these in-person classes.
ritual and f45 lower peirce reservoir are also only expecting a gradual return of customers.
still, an in-person experience is key because it helps cultivate a sense of community – part of the appeal of gyms and fitness studios, said f45's mr parsons.
"after 3m distancing, masks on, and no shared equipment .
.
.
we can't wait for a day in the future when all of this behind us and our members are giving high-fives after class, freely going off and have dinner and drinks after".
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                kuala lumpur (bernama): the government is expected to cover fuel and cooking oil subsidies up to rm8bil, which is rm4.
22bil more than the initial rm3.
78bil allocated for this year.
the government has spent rm6.
32bil on fuel and cooking oil subsidies in 2019 and rm2.
16bil for 2020. finance minister tengku datuk seri zafrul abdul aziz said the higher allocation this year was due to the increase in current global market prices.
following the increase in commodity prices globally, government subsidies for ron95 petroleum products, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) as well as subsidised cooking oil are expected to increase sharply.
"the government is prepared to bear the higher subsidy expenditure to preserve the well-being of the people and the viability of businesses, especially small traders," the finance ministry said in a statement on saturday (june 12).
tengku zafrul said the government would continue to help the people through various measures, including continuing to subsidise fuel and cooking oil to help reduce the impact of rising commodity prices globally on the people's cost of living.
he said the government would continue with the price maintenance policy of rm2.
05 per litre for ron95 petrol and rm2.
15 per litre for diesel which had been maintained since feb 10. meanwhile, the price of lpg was maintained at rm1.
90 per kg since june 2015 and subsidised cooking oil was worth rm2.
50 per one kg pack since 1997, he said.
he added that various budget 2021 measures and improved initiatives through permai, pemerkasa and pemerkasa plus will continue to be channelled at least until december 2021. bernama
tags / keywords:
subsidies
                                                                ,
                                                                                                fuel
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cooking oil
                                                                ,
                                                                                                finance ministry
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tengku zafrul abdul aziz
                                                                ,
                                                                                                lpg



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new coronavirus infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said yesterday that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said.
he did not say which period of time the average daily figure of 6,871 was based on.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel and social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire after next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded in total.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases yesterday, the highest this week, bringing the total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deemed that the curbs were successful in reducing infection numbers.
the ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow, with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed to reopen.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing to something similar to last month's mco, in which most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols were allowed, while social activities remained banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 receiving jabs on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
malaysia yesterday started to deploy four mobile vaccine trucks to inoculate some 7,200 residents of public housing projects in kuala lumpur, as the country races to speed up its vaccination drive.
the three-day programme, which will run until tomorrow, involves four areas in the kuala lumpur federal territory.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur malaysia on friday extended a national lockdown imposed to curb a surge in coronavirus infections for two more weeks, with the latest restrictions to end on june 28, security minister ismail sabri yaakob said.
the lockdown, originally set to end on june 14, was announced as the southeast asian nation began reporting record levels of covid-19 infections and deaths last month.
malaysia on friday reported 6,849 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 646,411, with 3,768 deaths overall.
new delhi: india on saturday (jun 12) reported 84,332 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 case load now stands at 29.
4 million, while total fatalities are at 367,081, data.
india added 4,002 deaths overnight.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, but the discovery ofseveral thousand unreported deaths in the state of biharhas raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore at least 700 people who had visited ion orchard in the past two weeks turned up to get tested for covid-19 at two medical centres on saturday (june 12).
about 600 people were tested at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city, while about 100 went to raffles medical centre in shaw centre.
a fullerton health spokesman said: "today was slightly busier than usual, but was well within our testing centre's capacity, and we were able to accommodate smoothly.
"long lines formed outside and inside shaw centre as people waited for their turn to get swabbed at raffles medical centre from 8.
30am.
on friday, the ministry of health reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion orchard had tested positive for covid-19.
she is the third worker at ion orchard to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall and offer testing to mall visitors and staff.
most of the people in the line said they were getting tested just to be safe.
others, like housewife madam aparna, 71, said she and her husband wanted to get tested for the safety of the people around them.
"we are doing it more for the others," she said.
the couple had visited the daiso outlet in ion on tuesday for about 30 minutes.
madam aparna added that they have both been fully vaccinated and feel safe.
ms margie ceitom, 39, a maid who was at shaw centre with her employer, said she did not have any symptoms, but since she and her employer had visited ion on may 27, the two of them decided to get tested.
another man in the line, who wanted to be known only as mr ng, 51, said he could not remember when he visited ion but had received a message from the tracetogether app a few days ago.
he said: "the message said i may have been possibly exposed to a covid-19 case.
"mr ng, who is a manager, added that he did not feel nervous.
he said that the decision to get tested was to be responsible and to make sure he was safe.
people queueing to get tested for covid-19 at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city on june 12, 2021.  st photo: alphonsus chern

a queue outside the testing centre at raffles medical centre at shaw centre on june 12, 2021.  st photo: jason quah
mr james quan, 53, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, said the level 8 carpark at ion is being used as a testing site for the mall's staff.
in a letter to tenants dated june 11 and seen by the straits times, all store staff were told to register for a swab test before 12pm on saturday using an online link.
in the letter, ion reminded store staff to be punctual for their appointed slot to avoid crowding.
mr quan, who works from home, said his shop staff will be tested from 4pm on saturday.
he added that this is the weekend before father's day, which falls on june 20, and stores may have been anticipating more sales because shoppers would have planned to buy gifts.
mr quan said he was not worried that his business would be affected, as he has three other outlets, including an online site.
his ion outlet is the smallest one.
he said: "one of my outlets is just next door, in takashimaya.
if i had only one store and no online site, it would have been a big blow to the business.
"attempts by st to enter the ion orchard carpark were unsuccessful.
a security guard at the entrance stopped a member of the media from going in.
people were still using the ion paterson link to get to other malls or to exit orchard mrt station.
ion orchard will be shut until 7am next wednesday (june 16).
st photo: jason quah

a closed ion orchard on june 12, 2021.  st photo: jason quah
at raffles city shopping centre, ms annie ang, who is in her late 50s, and her friend, mrs sharon ho, who is in her 60s were queuing up to get tested at fullerton health testing centre.
ms ang said: "we arrived here at about 2pm and it was very fast.
i took only 20 minutes to complete everything.
"the women, both of whom have received their covid-19 shots, live near ion orchard and went there to buy food on june 7. ion orchard will be shut for four days from 7am on saturday until 7am next wednesday for cleaning and disinfecting works after the moh confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to june 11 are being offered free covid-19 testing from saturday.
staff who worked at the mall from may 28 to june 11 will also be tested.
additional reporting by alphonsus chernjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a four-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his three-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan, who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000), is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020, was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have three- or four-room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a two-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his four-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two food and beverage establishments have been ordered to close after breaching safe management measures.
steamov steamboat buffet restaurant in beach road will be closed for 30 days and the starz bistro in east coast road for 10 days, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment (mse) on friday (june 11).
meanwhile, 77 people have been fined for breaching safe management measures (smms) in parks under tightened covid-19 rules that came into effect on may 16.  the curbs will gradually ease starting on june 14. two retail outlets giant supermarket at bedok shopping complex and cold storage supermarket at condominium siglap v near east coast road have been fined $1,000 each for not having staff to oversee their safe entry checkpoints.
with dining in slated to resume from june 21, government agencies will step up enforcement at f&b establishments and take firm action against any breaches of covid-19 rules, said the mse.
such breaches include the failure to maintain a 1m safe distance between groups and to prevent them from intermingling, allowing group sizes larger than five people, serving and allowing the consumption of alcohol after 10.
30pm, and providing live entertainment and games.
"enforcement actions will include fines, closures even for first offence, and the revoking of food shop, public entertainment or liquor licences," said the ministry.
it reminded patrons and operators of f&b establishments to strictly adhere to safe management measures as these places are high-risk settings where coronavirus transmission has taken place in recent weeks.
mse also said the national parks board will continue to temporarily close access to some parks and sections of beaches, lawns and facilities such as hardcourts, shelters and carparks when these areas get too crowded or where people remain non-compliant with safe management measures.
nparks has advised  compliance with safe management measures on more than 6,000 instances to parkgoers who were not wearing masks, and on more than 800 occasions to people who had gathered in groups of more than two, added the ministry.
these were verbally given by enforcement officers.
the latest breach is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant's third offence.
it had allowed customers to dine there at 9.
30pm on may 28. the starz bistro had done so on may 22, and also allowed customers to consume alcohol after 10.
30pm that day.
mse said the closure orders for both eateries will take effect when dining in is allowed to resume.
it said that agencies have identified places where safe management measures are more frequently breached and have stepped up enforcement presence there.
these hot spots includes parks and common areas of housing board estates such as hardcourts, basketball courts and pavilions.
"where repeated breaches of smms have been observed, agencies will close off facilities to ensure the safety of the community," added the ministry.
for example, a pavilion at block 90 pipit road was cordoned off on may 31 after a group of more than 12 people were found gathering there for dance sessions on multiple occasions.
"we therefore urge members of the public to use these facilities responsibly," said mse.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
as of saturday noon (12 jun), the ministry of health (moh) has preliminarily confirmed an additional 21 cases of covid-19 infection in singapore.
this brings the total number of infection cases to 62,266. there are 12 new cases of locally transmitted covid-19 infection.
7 are linked to previous cases, amongst whom 2 have already been placed on quarantine, and 5 were detected through surveillance.
the remaining 5 cases are currently unlinked.
"based on our investigations so far, the cases are in the community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories," said moh.
in addition, there are nine new imported cases, who had been placed on stay-home notice (shn) upon arrival in singapore.
all 9 are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the ministry will share further updates in its press release tonight.
according to last night's press release, there are currently 133 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
of these, most are stable or improving, and one is in critical condition in the intensive care unit (icu).
279 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
these are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19.
34 have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
jewel changi airport reopens to the public on jun 14, but passenger terminals remain closed to allow the airport community to adapt to new zoning measures and safety protocols.
singapore: the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) will set aside s$15 million to help airport workers adjust to enhanced safety measures put in place after more than 100 covid-19 cases were linked to the airport last month.
about 5,000 workers will benefit from the s$15 million, which will be used to provide a monthly special allowance and cater meals for workers for six months, as well as defray the cost of personal protective equipment, they said.
last month changi airport became singapore's largest active covid-19 cluster, with more than 100 cases, with caas and cag saying at the time that preliminary investigations suggested that theinitial transmissioncould have occurred through an airport worker who was "assisting a family from south asia".
subsequently changi airport's passenger terminals, as well as entertainment and retail complex jewel, were closed to the public, while additional covid-19 testing was introduced for arrivals from 'very high-risk' countries and regions.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), caas and cag said there have not been any new covid-19 positive cases involving airport workers since may 20.
"of the 43 airport workers who had tested positive, 42 have been discharged and the remaining worker is recovering in a hospital general ward without oxygen supplementation," they said.
they added that they have been working closely with the health ministry and the airport community to "review and strengthen changi airport's defences against the more transmissible covid-19 variants".
enhanced safety measures have been implemented to protect airport workers, travellers and the public, they said.
"cohorting arrangements for airport workers have been tightened through a zonal system to reduce the risk of cross infection," they said.
"in particular, airport workers in the passenger terminal piers, arrival immigration halls and baggage claim halls who have interactions with arriving and transfer passengers and therefore are at higher risk of exposure to the virus, are now required to remain in their work zone throughout their shift, including during their meal and rest times," they said.
these workers are also required to be in "higher levels" of ppe throughout the duration of their shifts, except for meal and rest times.
deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed, while anenhanced segregated zoning systemannounced last month has been implemented, said caas and cag.
"airport workers have been briefed and trained on the new measures and requirements, to allow the new measures and safety protocols to be implemented smoothly," they said, noting there would also be regular reminders, checks and audits on health safety as an "added safeguard".
"the safety of our airport workers remains our top priority.
we are therefore supportive of the tightened measures to ensure they are protected in the course of their work," said national trades union congress deputy secretary-general cham hui fong.
"our unions will continue to work closely with the relevant stakeholders to mitigate any impact on them, and to ensure their wellbeing is taken care of," she added.
jewel to reopen on jun 14jewel, which has been closed to the public since may 13, will reopen on jun 14. changi airport's passenger terminals will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adapt to the new zoning measures, which require "significant operational adjustments", said caas and cag.
more details on the reopening of the passenger terminals will be released at a later date, they said.
since may 23, airport workers in higher risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test (art) between their seven-day polymerase chain reaction-based rostered routine tests.
cag and caas said that since jun 3, it has been testing the use of the traciex breathalyser, which allows workers to blow into a disposable breathalyser fitted with a proprietary sensor chip instead of undergoing an art.
traciex was given provisional authorisation by the health sciences authority on may 27.
"the breathalyser will then be inserted into a portable reading device for vibrational spectroscopy analysis, which will be able to tell if a person is infected with covid-19 within two minutes," said cag and caas.
this will allow workers to receive their results faster than with the current art, they said, adding that workers would also experience less discomfort as the test is non-invasive.
"we aim to progressively replace the art for more airport workers with the traciex breathalyser in the coming months.
this will also allow us to step up the frequency of testing so that we can more quickly detect, isolate and treat any potential covid-19 cases in the airport community," they said.
transport minister s iswaran, who visited changi airport on friday, described the new breathalyser test as a "potential game changer" due to its method of administration.
"we will gradually be scaling up the use of this breathalyser to validate its efficacy, and to be able to then scale up its use for a much wider range of workers," he said, noting workers had told him the new test was a welcome alternative to the more invasive pcr and art tests.
reopening travelwhen asked about comments made by south korean authorities that the country planned to expedite travel bubble plans with singapore, mr iswaran said singapore was "engaging in dialogue with many potential partners".
to allow for cross-border travel, key elements such as mutual recognition of vaccinations and testing protocols need to be in place, he said.
meanwhile the enhanced safety measures allow the airport to adapt more quickly to emerging risks, he said, describing these measures as an important part of singapore's "overall posture towards a calibrated and safe reopening of travel".
"once we have those elements in place then, at the appropriate time, when the ambient conditions are there, we can then activate that plan and mobilise the airlines and other partners to facilitate the kind of cross-border travel that we want to achieve.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
climate impact x is a welcome addition to the country's climate action initiatives that provide new economic opportunities, help price discovery and can aid future compliance, say energy researchers.
singapore: singapore took another big step in advancing the green agenda last month.
the country on may 20 announced plans to position itself as a hub for carbon services.
climate impact x (cix) is a joint venture between the development bank of singapore, singapore exchange, standard chartered bank and temasek holdings.
first envisioned by the emerging stronger taskforce's alliance for action on sustainability, cix will provide a marketplace for trading carbon credits commencing in late 2021. singapore is well-suited to hosting a carbon marketplace.
it is an ideal base for multinational companies working on projects that generate emission credits across the region.
as a regional leader for commodities trading, singapore also deals with many energy majors and traders who will form a large part of the clientele for carbon market ancillary services.
there are already around 30 firms here offering carbon consulting services, which include low-carbon project development, consulting and verification for the registration of certified emissions-reduction credits, carbon footprint measurement, project financing and legal services.
the launch of a carbon marketplace can attract more of such consultancies in a key growth industry.
(what will cix bring to the table of carbon trading and climate action?
find out on the climate conversations.
)a welcome addition to singapore's climate action initiativescix is a welcome addition to the suite of emission-cutting initiatives and institutions in singapore that helps the country accelerate its peak and net-zero emissions timelines.
under the paris agreement, singapore'snationally determined contributionis to peak emissions at 65 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent around 2030.  singapore also seeks to halve peak emissions to 33 million tonnes by 2050 and achieve net zero emissions as soon as viable during the second half of the century.
a key innovation of cix includes provisions for trading nature-based solutions.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
nature-based climate solutions like mangroves, wetlands and forests can absorb vast amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
a recent study by researchers at the nus centre for nature-based climate solutions estimates reforestation in southeast asia can contribute to 3.
4 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions reductions per year.
reforestation, coupled with supply chain transparency and harmonised standards for carbon offsets, can translate into a ready source of carbon credits.
as an exchange focused on such carbon credits, cix will enhance the climate finance ecosystem within singapore and expand the range of mechanisms for firms to manage and price their carbon externalities.
google, microsoft and amazon are said to be in talks to use cix in their journey to become net-zero emitters.
moreover, it offers another way for singapore to widen the international scope of its environmental management activities.
the right price for carboncix can aid with the adjustment of singapore's carbon tax – which came into effect in january 2019 – by expanding the array of tools used for pricing carbon in singapore.
this will permit the singapore government some freedom when discussing future, probably upward revision to the current tax, since local firms will have the ability to defray their "carbon costs" in other ways.
the current tax rate of s$5 per tonne of co2 can be contested for three reasons.
first, the abatement costs are typically considered much higher, and ideally, carbon price would reflect the cost of abatement.
a world bank report published in may notes that a price of us$40 to us$80 (s$50 to s$100) per tonne of co2 is needed to meet the 2 degrees celsius goal.
second, the s$5 price tag might not fully capture carbon embedded in international supply chains and trade.
this has spurred debate around the need for carbon border adjustment mechanisms – a tool for ensuring that domestic and imported goods price their embodied emissions equally, thereby discouraging trade with high-polluting countries that do not have effective carbon pricing mechanisms of their own.
third, singapore's carbon pricing is arguably not a sufficiently liquid mechanism because it changes infrequently.
the government has plans to increase the tax rate to between s$10 and s$15 per tonne by 2030.  the tax level and trajectory post-2023 will be reviewed by 2022, in consultation with industry and expert groups in order to give businesses and opportunity to adjust to changes.
there is wisdom in introducing market-based mechanisms to facilitate the price discovery process and allow emissions to be priced into commercial decisions.
in the absence of such a mechanism, finding the right price for carbon is complex.
it requires striking a balance between reducing the carbon footprint of industries and increasing the costs of doing business, which may negatively impact the competitiveness of singapore's economy.
however, with the pandemic still evolving, the success of singapore's carbon services hub should not be assumed.
increased and quantifiable demand for carbon offsets also suggest an upward trend in emissions-intensive activities in the near term.
getting companies to play ballthe cix is also a first step to getting companies to play ball on singapore's climate obligations.
demand for carbon offsets could arise from several sources.
companies currently paying carbon taxes may purchase credits to defray their carbon tax liability.
similarly, firms or other speculators may purchase credits to trade later for a premium, should this be allowed under the carbon pricing act.
retail trade from individuals seeking socially responsible investment options can also be expected.
yet singapore must not forget there are no industry-level mandatory reduction targets.
many carbon commitments by corporations in the region are currently voluntary, which may limit market participation.
regulation can steward strong market participation.
with rapid global expansion of climate finance, compliance concerns have also grown because of "greenwash" – when companies over-inflate the environmental credentials of their projects.
the devil is in the details.
regulators must provide robust mechanisms for project verification, monitoring and compliance enforcement not only to prevent greenwash, but also to ensure fair benchmarking across all projects.
this could be industry initiated, where carbon credit and offset suppliers commit to co-develop and implement greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodologies for their respective sectors.
regulators will then be able to assess the methodologies that improve transparency in carbon credit transactions.
having recognised the complexity of scaling up global carbon markets, the global institute on finance's taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets has launched a consultation on creating "high-integrity" markets, due to end in late june.
it seeks to establish "a threshold standard for high-quality credits, clear legal standards and uniting existing, fragmented carbon credit markets in one impactful, well-run system".
to ensure the integrity and quality of its credits, cix will work with global partners including the taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets and the natural climate solutions alliance.
it will also use cutting-edge data analytics, such as satellite monitoring, machine learning and blockchain technology to ensure the environmental integrity of credits traded on cix.
global rating agencies might be roped in to provide independent environmental ratings for nature-based projects which will issue carbon credits.
it is important singapore provides a well-run and trusted market for carbon offsets while expanding emissions-reduction efforts.
however, to meet its own national targets, companies must ultimately commit to less carbon-intensive production models and not simply "pay to play" by exploiting offsets.
melissa low is research fellow at the energy studies institute, national university of singapore.
david broadstock is senior research fellow and lead energy economist at the same institute.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                        the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
representational image
                        the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
with the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155.  the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.
the number of active cases further declined to 10,80,690 accounting for 3.
68 percent of the total infections, while the national covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.
07 per cent.
india's active caseload declined to less than 11 lakh after 63 days while 84,332 new cases reported in 24 hours are the lowest in 70 days, the ministry said.
also, 20,44,131 coronavirus tests were conducted on friday taking the total number to 37,42,42,384. the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.
39 percent.
it has been less than 10 per cent for the 19th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 4.
94 per cent.
recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 30th consecutive day.
the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,79,11,384, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.
25 percent, the data stated.
other highlights- seven-day moving average of new cases below 1 lakh after 66 days- tamil nadu reports 15.
76k new cases, kerala 14.
23k, maharashtra 11.
76k- maharashtra reports 2619 new deaths, tamil nadu 378, karnataka 159- five states/uts report rise in active cases: maharashtra, bihar, west bengal, arunachal pradesh, a&n islands- difference between new cases reported in the last 7 days and the preceding 7 days is -32percent (world average is -14 percent)- 34.
34 lakh new vaccinations.
24.
96 crore total.
31.
08 lakh received their first dose yesterday, 3.
26 lakh second dose- 19.
20 lakh new tests.
test positivity rate: 4.
39 percent (4.
49 percent the previous day)- test positivity rate below 5 percent for the 5th day- test positivity rate: kerala 13.
45 percent, sikkim 12.
64 percent, goa 12.
52 percent.
uttar pradesh 0.
20 percent, delhi 0.
41 percent, madhya pradesh 0.
55 percent- active cases in india now less than in brazil
                updated date:
                
                    june 12, 2021 12:11:07 ist
                

                        tags:
                    
                coronavirus updates: maharashtra also reported less than 20,000 covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive on saturday
            
                coronavirus live news updates: the cm also reviewed the status of paediatric icus, which are being set up at various government hospitals, and functioning of 13 oxygen plants in the state
            
                coronavirus news updates: the tally of covid-19 cases in mumbai rose to 7,15,146, while the toll reached 15,146. 









            sign up for a weekly curated briefing of the most important strategic affairs stories from across the world.
firstpostsectionplustoolsappsnetwork18 sites copyright © 2021.  firstpost all rights reserved.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new delhi (reuters) india on saturday (june 12) cut taxes on medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators and drugs used to treat covid-19 infections, after widespread criticism over healthcare costs during a devastating second wave of the virus in april and may.
the government cut taxes on medical grade oxygen, ventilators, the remdesivir antiviral drug, diagnostic kits, pulse oximeters and hand sanitisers to 5 per cent from 12-18 per cent with immediate effect.
the new levies will be in place until the end of september, finance minister nirmala sitharaman said, adding it would include taxes on electric furnaces in crematoriums and ambulances.
"the rate cut has not be done with any cost implication (on government finances) in mind, it has been done so that people get some ease.
.
.
.
the decision has been taken to provide ultimate ease to patients," revenue secretary tarun bajaj told a news conference.
the government, however, would continue to tax vaccines at 5 per cent, he added.
the world's second-most populous country, where coronavirus cases hit a peak of 400,000 a day in may, reported 84,332 new infections on saturday, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
there were 4,002 deaths.
the south asian country's total covid-19 cases stands at 29.
4 million, with 367,081 fatalities.
during the second wave of the virus many people resorted to costly private treatment in what is still a low-income country.
others paid twenty times the usual price for oxygen cylinders on the black market and huge sums to secure ambulances and hearses.
experts have said millions of people remain vulnerable to new surges of infections, particularly in the countryside where two-thirds of the population lives.
prime minister narendra modi has said the government would take over the inoculation programme from indian states and offer free doses to everyone over the age of 18. the government would allow private hospitals to have 25 per cent of all vaccine supplies, but not to charge more than 150 rupees (s$2.
72) over the cost of the dose, he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a wider range of sports activities will be allowed in the coming weeks when singapore enters phase three (heightened alert) on monday (june 14).
selected organised outdoor programmes with a cap of five people up from two may resume, while from june 21, sport competitions and tournaments without spectators will be given the green light as long as they do not exceed 50 persons in each facility.
these were among the latest updates in sport singapore's (sportsg) advisory issued on friday.
the rules for outdoor training for youth and children aged 18 and under will be eased progressively.
for the first week, low- and high-intensity activities will be kept to a maximum of five.
from june 21, this will increase to 30 with multiple groups of five.
for adults, the five-person cap for high-intensity activities will be relaxed from june 21 as well.
swimfast aquatic group founder david lim welcomed the changes.
his academy has been operating at 20 per cent for the past month during the heightened measures for phase 2. high-intensity outdoor activities such as swimming, where masks have to be removed, were restricted to two people and no multiple groups of two are allowed.
this includes the coach or instructor.
as such, lim had to suspend the academy's learn-to-swim sessions since the start of the current heightened phase began on may 16 and continued only his competitive swimming sessions.
he said: "it's a relief, we can legitimately carry on the classes.
now, we're only doing competitive swimming, so it's no different.
we're just like a pool operator.
swimmers book a lane and swim by themselves.
"now we don't have to juggle such small numbers.
we can carry out lessons with four swimmers to one coach.
that ratio is a huge difference to us because when it's one-to-one, we're definitely losing money.
"the multi-ministry task force on thursday had indicated that mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
national agency sportsg's latest update permitting sports competitions as long as different sessions are adequately separated within a day or across multiple days to avoid congregation was welcomed by organisers like lld sports development and management founder lyn yeo.
her company is hoping to get approval for the cartimes singapore junior development tour championship.
the golf event at laguna national was postponed from its original may 31-june 2 date.
she said: "june is typically the busiest tournament season for junior golfers and we are hoping with great excitement that we are able to resume.
"some measures that organisers plan to have in place include temperature screening and safe entry protocols, as well as restricting each flight to two buggies, which have been installed with a full partition.
players and officials will also be required to wear masks throughout their rounds.
for gyms and fitness studios, many of whom are closed due to current restrictions, they will be allowed to restart operations from june 21. staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing, which is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities.
this will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
sportsg also announced that the occupancy limit for sport and recreational facilities will be increased to one person per 10 sq m from one person per 16 sq m, capped at 50 people.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
india covid-19 updates: india registered the lowest number of covid cases in 71 days (file)india, witnessing a downward trend in covid cases, reported the lowest daily spike in infections since april 2 with 80,834 new cases in the last 24 hours.
india has so far logged over 2.
93 crore cases of coronavirus.
over 1.
32 lakh people recovered from the deadly disease in the last 24 hours.
india's test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to be on the decline.
for the sixth straight day, the positivity rate remained below the 5 per cent-mark at 4.
25 per cent.
track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
singapore: workers in the security, landscape, and lift and escalator sectors may soon see their salaries increase further under the progressive wage model, with tripartite partners "confident" they can conclude negotiations in the next few months, said manpower minister tan see leng.
at a media briefing about the progressive wage model on thursday (jun 10), mr tan said recommendations for the three sectors were currently in the pipeline and that newly-formedtripartite clusters for food services, retail, andwaste managementwere also making headway.
"the (tripartite workgroup on lower-wage workers) is looking at ways to cover the various occupational groups under progressive wages, and this will benefit low wage workers employed in similar occupations but distributed across the various sectors," he said, adding that the workgroup will share more on the plans soon.
the update comes a day after the government accepted proposals by the tripartite cluster for cleaners (tcc)to increase the wages of cleanerseach year over six years from 2023, under the progressive wage model.
it was the first wage review since the workgroup was launched in october last year to look into the salaries of low-wage workers and to improve their well-being.
senior minister of state for manpower zaqy mohamad, who chairs the workgroup, said the timeline for the roll-out of the wage increases will give employers time to adapt.
"they have many contract obligations that typically run two to three years, so you must also be fair with the industry to adapt because they have committed salaries for existing contracts," he said.
"the six-year schedule also provides service buyers and providers with clarity on wage cost increases so that they can plan for the long term, and cleaning firms are also able to now price in wage increases in the next multi-year contracts that they have with the service buyers," he added.
he gave assurance that cleaners' wages will continue to grow from now to 2023, under an existing agreement that stipulates annual increments of 3 per cent each year.
during the briefing, national trades union congress (ntuc) secretary-general ng chee meng explained the challenges behind implementing the progressive wage model for various sectors.
"this is a very difficult journey .
.
.
it's not so easy as a blanket policy (dictating) that these are the wages, but it gives the ecosystem a runway that is sustainable that would benefit and create a win-win (situation) for both workers and employers," he said.
when asked why it takes a long time for the model to be implemented, mr ng said the model is a more "involved" process that may take a bit more time.
"if you set (wages) too high .
.
.
workers may well be made redundant, loss of jobs, because businesses cannot carry that cost, they will exit, or even if they don't exit, workers may lose their jobs," he added.
"if you set it too low, then it becomes actually a wage ceiling for workers.
if my real productivity deserves s$20, s$25 an hour and we got it quite wrong, as in many other practices of minimum wage when it's set too low, then actually, it becomes a wage ceiling.
this (is) what i mentioned .
.
.
as potential downsides of (a) minimum wage.
"responding to a question about how the wage increases which only apply to singaporeans and permanent residents might push more employers to hire foreigners to lower manpower costs, mr tan said existing measures such as employment quota and qualifying salary requirements are in place.
"so, there will be more initiatives that you can see that would look very .
.
.
comprehensively at this foreign versus local talent and workforce complementarity," added the manpower minister.
pwm vs minimum wagecurrently, the progressive wage model is mandatory for the cleaning, security and landscape industries.
it was designed to raise the salaries of lower-wage workers by upgrading their skills and increasing their productivity.
there have been numerous debates on the merits and effectiveness of the progressive wage model compared with a minimum wage system.
during the briefing, mr zaqy compared singapore's progressive wage model to the minimum wage system implemented in other countries, such as the us and uk.
he said the progressive wage model has brought about sustained wage increases in singapore over almost a decade.
in contrast, the federal minimum wage system implemented in the us has been stuck at us$7.
25 per hour since 2009 due to "political wrangling", he said.
he added that while the uk has increased its minimum wage, the country has also seen a significant increase in zero-hour contracts, where employers are not obliged to provide any minimum working hours and workers do not have to accept any work offered.
"the government is not against minimum wage.
in fact, we have taken some parts of this in our social innovation because we take the best of breed from what we see out there," he said.
"so you see that the bottom rungs of our (progressive wage model) have some elements of minimum wage but we didn't stop there, we created ladders to create career progression.
"businesses, consumers must do their partas the progressive wage model expands to cover more sectors, businesses must continue to transform through automation and job redesign to help uplift the wages of their workers, said dr robert yap, president of the singapore national employers federation (snef).
he added that workers will also have to upskill to stay relevant and ensure career progression.
mr zaqy added that the government will continue to help bear some of the cost increases through salary top-ups such as the workfare income supplement scheme.
this is to ensure that the impact of the cost increases is not solely borne by businesses or consumers.
society must be prepared to do its part too, he said.
"this is really about addressing social inequality .
.
.
as an advanced country and mature country like singapore, this is where we need to take our society forward," he said.
"for us to say .
.
.
we want to care for low-wage workers but not pay them a decent salary, not support them as a society, that cannot stand for too long," he added.
"this is where society needs to extend its support for low wage workers.
we may have to expect to pay a bit more, but i think if we know, deep in our heart that it supports, encourages and it's giving recognition to our low wage workers, our essential workers, for the work that they do.
it is something that we must be prepared to support as a society.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
jewel changi airport reopens to the public on jun 14, but passenger terminals remain closed to allow the airport community to adapt to new zoning measures and safety protocols.
singapore: the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) will set aside s$15 million to help airport workers adjust to enhanced safety measures put in place after more than 100 covid-19 cases were linked to the airport last month.
about 5,000 workers will benefit from the s$15 million, which will be used to provide a monthly special allowance and cater meals for workers for six months, as well as defray the cost of personal protective equipment, they said.
last month changi airport became singapore's largest active covid-19 cluster, with more than 100 cases, with caas and cag saying at the time that preliminary investigations suggested that theinitial transmissioncould have occurred through an airport worker who was "assisting a family from south asia".
subsequently changi airport's passenger terminals, as well as entertainment and retail complex jewel, were closed to the public, while additional covid-19 testing was introduced for arrivals from 'very high-risk' countries and regions.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), caas and cag said there have not been any new covid-19 positive cases involving airport workers since may 20.
"of the 43 airport workers who had tested positive, 42 have been discharged and the remaining worker is recovering in a hospital general ward without oxygen supplementation," they said.
they added that they have been working closely with the health ministry and the airport community to "review and strengthen changi airport's defences against the more transmissible covid-19 variants".
enhanced safety measures have been implemented to protect airport workers, travellers and the public, they said.
"cohorting arrangements for airport workers have been tightened through a zonal system to reduce the risk of cross infection," they said.
"in particular, airport workers in the passenger terminal piers, arrival immigration halls and baggage claim halls who have interactions with arriving and transfer passengers and therefore are at higher risk of exposure to the virus, are now required to remain in their work zone throughout their shift, including during their meal and rest times," they said.
these workers are also required to be in "higher levels" of ppe throughout the duration of their shifts, except for meal and rest times.
deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed, while anenhanced segregated zoning systemannounced last month has been implemented, said caas and cag.
"airport workers have been briefed and trained on the new measures and requirements, to allow the new measures and safety protocols to be implemented smoothly," they said, noting there would also be regular reminders, checks and audits on health safety as an "added safeguard".
"the safety of our airport workers remains our top priority.
we are therefore supportive of the tightened measures to ensure they are protected in the course of their work," said national trades union congress deputy secretary-general cham hui fong.
"our unions will continue to work closely with the relevant stakeholders to mitigate any impact on them, and to ensure their wellbeing is taken care of," she added.
jewel to reopen on jun 14jewel, which has been closed to the public since may 13, will reopen on jun 14. changi airport's passenger terminals will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adapt to the new zoning measures, which require "significant operational adjustments", said caas and cag.
more details on the reopening of the passenger terminals will be released at a later date, they said.
since may 23, airport workers in higher risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test (art) between their seven-day polymerase chain reaction-based rostered routine tests.
cag and caas said that since jun 3, it has been testing the use of the traciex breathalyser, which allows workers to blow into a disposable breathalyser fitted with a proprietary sensor chip instead of undergoing an art.
traciex was given provisional authorisation by the health sciences authority on may 27.
"the breathalyser will then be inserted into a portable reading device for vibrational spectroscopy analysis, which will be able to tell if a person is infected with covid-19 within two minutes," said cag and caas.
this will allow workers to receive their results faster than with the current art, they said, adding that workers would also experience less discomfort as the test is non-invasive.
"we aim to progressively replace the art for more airport workers with the traciex breathalyser in the coming months.
this will also allow us to step up the frequency of testing so that we can more quickly detect, isolate and treat any potential covid-19 cases in the airport community," they said.
transport minister s iswaran, who visited changi airport on friday, described the new breathalyser test as a "potential game changer" due to its method of administration.
"we will gradually be scaling up the use of this breathalyser to validate its efficacy, and to be able to then scale up its use for a much wider range of workers," he said, noting workers had told him the new test was a welcome alternative to the more invasive pcr and art tests.
reopening travelwhen asked about comments made by south korean authorities that the country planned to expedite travel bubble plans with singapore, mr iswaran said singapore was "engaging in dialogue with many potential partners".
to allow for cross-border travel, key elements such as mutual recognition of vaccinations and testing protocols need to be in place, he said.
meanwhile the enhanced safety measures allow the airport to adapt more quickly to emerging risks, he said, describing these measures as an important part of singapore's "overall posture towards a calibrated and safe reopening of travel".
"once we have those elements in place then, at the appropriate time, when the ambient conditions are there, we can then activate that plan and mobilise the airlines and other partners to facilitate the kind of cross-border travel that we want to achieve.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
the humanitarian organisation for migration economics (home) welcomes the news that cleaners who are singaporeans and permanent residents will see wage increments under the progressive wage model (cleaners to see their wages increase over 6 years from 2023, june 8).
however, as cleaning jobs are also performed by migrant workers, the move to increase the pay of cleaners must also include migrant workers, who are excluded from the progressive wage model.
in research that home published last year regarding the working conditions of bangladeshi conservancy workers, we stated that they earn gross monthly wages of between $500 and $800.
we also found that they are severely overworked.
home spoke to more than 30 workers.
many reported working at least 12-hour shifts with little rest, and having to attend to unexpected calls at any time of the day or night.
all the workers home spoke to stated that they had no rest days at all.
they also said it is not uncommon for a worker to be denied public holidays and annual leave for the period of their employment.
the covid-19 pandemic has increased their workload as work-from-home arrangements have generated more waste, and more intense and frequent cleaning is required to disinfect areas with higher footfall.
while the government encourages town councils to go beyond cost considerations in awarding bids to cleaning companies, town councils are still under pressure to be seen as fiscally prudent, and this results in contracts being awarded to companies that pay workers low wages.
a cleaning company we interviewed said the low barriers to entry and competitive market conditions offer little incentive to pay workers more as companies are afraid of being priced out of the industry.
all low-wage workers, regardless of nationality, should receive equal protection.
it is important to include migrant cleaners in the progressive wage model if we wish to deal with depressed wages and poor employment conditions in the sector.
responsible outsourcing can be mainstreamed only when wage inequalities and exploitative working conditions are tackled for all workers, and not just for a segment of them.
when there is an underclass of migrants who are easy to exploit, companies are less willing to improve the wages, benefits and working conditions of its employees, local or foreign.
jaya anil kumarhumanitarian organisation for migration economicsjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore lawsuits brought by 13 bus drivers against transport operator sbs transit over overtime pay involve important questions of law that would affect a larger class of workers in singapore, a high court judge said.
the workers claim in their suits, filed in 2019 and 2020, that they had been made to work without a rest day each week, and were also underpaid for overtime work.
in a written judgment allowing the case to be transferred to the high court, justice audrey lim on thursday (june 10) noted that the employment act provides for mandated rest days and limits to hours of work to protect the rights of employees.
"the question of whether this can be 'overridden' in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services.
.
.
is important, as it affects a larger population of workers in general and not just the immediate plaintiff or parties to the case," justice lim said.
a provision in the act allows an employer to require employees in essential services to work in excess of the prescribed limit of hours or to work on a rest day.
the questions thus involve the interpretation of provisions in the employment act relating to whether a rest day can be scheduled such that an employee can be made to work for 12 consecutive days over a 14-day period, and whether bus drivers fall within the definition of employees providing "essential services".
justice lim said there would be potential ramifications on how such employment contracts are structured in terms of granting days off, computing overtime pay and determining work hours.
on sept 20, 2019, five bus drivers each filed a magistrate's court suit against sbs transit.
subsequently, eight others filed similar suits against sbs.
all 13 plaintiffs are represented by lawyer m.  ravi.
last year, the parties agreed for the suit relating to one plaintiff to be heard as a test case, to save time and money.
this means the court's decision and findings on mr chua qwong meng's suit will be binding on all the plaintiffs.
mr chua claims that sbs had breached the terms of his employment contract, which commenced on april 3, 2017, and the employment act.
he alleged that sbs failed to give him a rest day each week.
he also alleged that he was underpaid for overtime work which includes working on a rest day, for working beyond the prescribed hours and for working on a public holiday.
sbs, which is represented by senior counsel davinder singh, denies his claims.
it asserts that it has complied with its contractual obligations and the laws, rules or regulations pertaining to working hours, overtime pay and rest days.
in particular, the law provides that an employee providing "essential services" may be required to exceed the prescribed work hours, and to work on a rest day.
in march, mr chua filed an application to transfer the test case from the magistrate's court to the high court.
mr ravi argued that the case should be transferred to the high court, as it involves an important question of law that has the potential to affect all classes of employees in singapore.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
supply lines is a daily newsletter that tracks trade and supply chains disrupted by the pandemic.
sign up here.
delays from congestion at southern chinese ports triggered by fresh covid-19 outbreaks are rippling through global supply chains, threatening to inflate costs and exacerbate disruptions.
a cargo vessel operated by cosco shipping lines co.  will skip a scheduled port stop in singapore this month because of delays in china, according to alliance partner ocean network express holdings ltd.  one of cma cgm's vessels heading to china in july will also not call at the southeast asia trans-shipment hub.
"the delays have already resulted in pressurizing soaring shipping prices within china due to a lack of containers and increased export demand," said josh brazil, vice president of marketing at project44, a supply-chain intelligence firm.
"these high shipping costs are just one factor that may contribute to an additional looming threat to global inflation.
"ship waiting times in singapore are up from a year earliersource: project44a virus outbreak at yantian in shenzhen has already inflated spot freight rates globally, with drewry's world container index increasing 10% in the past three weeks, said simon heaney, senior manager of container research at drewry shipping consultants ltd. "it feels inevitable that rates will climb higher as we head into the third-quarter peak season," he said.
"both importers and exporters will suffer if delays and waiting times extend.
"the disruption is causing further pain for global shippers already struggling with interruptions to supply chains from the pandemic, and the ever given's grounding in the suez canal earlier this year.
trans-shipment dwell times in singapore are at about eight to nine days now, up from roughly five days a year ago, according to estimates from project44.
vessel schedules and carrier service levels have been disrupted by delays at yantian port, and congestion has spilled over to the nearby shekou and nansha terminals, psa singapore said in an emailed response to queries.
"we expect vessel arrivals in singapore to be affected as well.
"however, container vessels calling at psa singapore's terminal aren't facing longer wait times as a result of the delays in yantian yet, the container operator said.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a local company is being investigated for manufacturing surgical masks here without a licence, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
this is the first time a firm is suspected of that action.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent, with the masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
a total of 33 cartons, each containing about 2,500 masks, were seized.
under the health products act, firms are required to have a licence from hsa to manufacture surgical masks.
vision empire international was also suspected to have imported surgical masks from overseas before repackaging, rebranding and reselling them without having a licence to do so.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
they were sold on local e-commerce platforms for between $10 and $22 per box of 50 masks, according to preliminary investigations.
consumers who have made purchases are advised to stop using them immediately, hsa said.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
photo: health sciences authority 
it added that these listings have been removed with the assistance of the platform administrators, and vision empire international has been directed to recall the products.
investigations are ongoing, the authority said.
manufacturers and repackers of surgical masks are licensed by hsa to ensure good quality and safety for use.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment, with the produced masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
photo: health sciences authority 

the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent.
photo: health sciences authority 
in its release, the authority said surgical masks from unlicensed facilities have not been verified to meet the standards of quality, filtration capability and breathability.
"sub-standard masks may not provide the desirable level of protection to the wearer," it added, noting that masks made, repackaged and/or stored in unsanitary conditions could be contaminated.
"wearing such masks may increase the users' risk of developing skin irritation, respiratory symptoms or infections," hsa said.
it will take strong enforcement action against those who illegally manufacture and/or supply masks.
those who do so could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for up to two years or fined up to $50,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
following the latest announcement from the singapore government, dream cruises is pleased to announce that effective from june 14, 2021, the world dream will resume operating at the permitted 50 percent passenger capacity where guests from different households may now enjoy the option of traveling in a group size of up to five.
additionally, from june 21 onwards, guests may indulge in a feast for the palates and eyes where they may explore and enjoy dining in at over 35 f&b concepts around the ship including asian, international and halal-certified cuisine and enjoy additional live performances including singing, magic shows and ballroom dancing by our international performers.
with the well-being of its guests and crew its number one priority, dream cruises maintains the highest standards in safety with comprehensive precautionary measures in place.
since the restart of cruise operations in november 2020, world dream has enjoyed over seven months of covid-19 incident-free sailings in singapore and has received tremendous positive feedback on social media from guests on their experiences onboard the ship.
"dream cruises would like to thank the people of singapore who have continued to support world dream even during this period of stricter health guidelines and safety precautions.
despite the heightened health measures of the previous month, world dream has enjoyed robust sales in june and we are seeing limited availability of cruises in july," said michael goh, president of dream cruises.
"with the diligence of our crew to provide the safest environment for our guests onboard, world dream has extended its proven track record as a worry-free vacation option for singaporeans.
""not only are we excited to welcome a higher capacity of guests up to 50% aboard world dream for a super summer seacation, we are also excited to introduce our unique japanese-themed cruise experience from june 20 until sept.  18.  this includes the world's first lavender fields of hokkaido and torii gates of kyoto at sea, complemented by a variety of fun-filled japanese-related activities and cuisine ideal for vacationers and families, especially during the present school holidays," he added.
as part of the unique japanese themed cruises on world dream from june 20 to sept.  18, guests can begin their wonderful journey aboard by strolling through the stunning and breathtaking torii tunnel surrounded by pink sakura trees, as well as a dreamy lavender field specially created and inspired by popular destinations like hokkaido in japan.
guests will also be able to enjoy all things japanese, including lavender sachet and crepe paper making workshops, relaxing with a lavender spa treatment or personally experiencing traditional geisha culture from make-up demonstrations to hair ornament tutorials, japanese parasol dance classes, as well as favorite and popular japanese cuisine and so much more.
"we had launched a series of successful thematic cruises centered around the asia pacific starting with the rhythm of korea and amazing thailandthematic cruises; and soon guests can discover the wonders of japan on world dream.
guests can look forward to more amazing and global thematic cruises towards year-end including the markets of the world and nordic christmas thematic sailings later this year," noted goh.
get the latest breaking cruise news.
sign up.
101 ships | 209,402 berths | $61 billion | viewhighlights:market overview40+ new ships2021-2027first to recovernew playersfull coverageorder todayhighlights:entire industrysupply dataall companies400 pagesdigital access2027 outlookorder today
the high court on thursday (10 june) gave permission to 13 sbs transit bus drivers to transfer their case from the state courts to the high court, based on important questions of law or public importance regarding the interpretation of certain employment act (ea) provisions relevant to their case.
in the landmark decision, justice audrey lim said in a written judgement that the issues raised by the drivers met the first ground concerning important questions of law under section 54b of the state courts act (sca).
an important question of law, as viewed within the ambit of section 54b of the sca, should concern "more than the immediate interests of the parties".
it should "be of some public importance, or a point of law which would affect other cases", she added.
however, such a question does not have to be "a difficult or complex one, although it may be so in many instances", said the judge.
in the case of the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, questions of law that were raised were brought up in relation to the following ea provisions, among others:justice lim found that the above questions of law affect not only the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, but also "a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector who may potentially fall within the definition of employees" under part iii of the criminal law (temporary provisions) act (cla).
part iii of the cla encompasses employees "in any industrial undertaking essential to the economy of singapore or any of the essential services" listed under the provision, pursuant to section 38(2)(f) of the ea.
the ea's provisions on mandated rest days and limits to hours of work, among others, serve as safeguards against the exploitation of the rights of employees, justice lim noted.
"the question of whether this can be "overridden" in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services, which on its face may not look like a difficult question, is important as it affects a larger population of workers in general and not just the immediate plaintiff or parties to the case," she reasoned.
such a question, the judge elaborated, would have "potential ramifications on how such contracts are structured in terms of granting off days, computing overtime pay and determining work hours".
"this however, is not to be taken to mean that in every case in which a provision of the ea is engaged that it would thus constitute an important question of law," said justice lim.
justice lim also touched on the issue of one of the drivers, chua qwong meng's action of urging his case to be made a 'test case'.
while the sca does not provide a definition of a 'test case', the judge noted that both sbs transit and the drivers accept the definitions in black's law dictionary, which state that a 'test case' is:1.  a lawsuit brought to establish an important legal principle or right.
such an action is frequently brought by the parties' mutual consent on agreed facts – when that is so, a test case is also sometimes termed amicable action or amicable suit; or2.
an action selected from several suits that are based on the same facts and evidence, raise the same question of law, and have a common plaintiff or a common defendant.
sometimes, when all parties agree, the court orders a consolidation and all parties are bound by the decision in the test case.
– also termed test action.
in the present case, the action brought by the sbs transit drivers to transfer the suit falls within the definition of a "test case", as it fits the second definition stated above, said justice lim.
she also rejected sbs transit's submission that a test case should, on top of the second definition above, include case management "or other concerns which would make the matter unsuitable for determination by the state courts".
referencing the australian case cited by sbs transit, justice lim said that unlike the relevant australian provisions that contain guidelines on the federal magistrates court's discretion to transfer proceedings to a higher court, there are no such requirements in section 54b(1) of the sca in singapore.
"i add that such matters may, however, constitute relevant considerations under the second stage of the inquiry pertaining to the exercise of the court's discretion whether to transfer even if one of the grounds in s. 54b(1) is made out," she added.
human rights lawyer mr ravi of k.  k.  cheng law llc, who represents the drivers, dubbed the decision a "ground-breaking" one, as the high court "acknowledged that there are important questions of law of public importance centring around the interpretation of provisions employment act".
such questions, he said, "affect a larger class of employees and workers in general, and would have potential ramifications on how employment contracts are structured in terms of granting off days, computing overtime pay and determining work hours".
mr ravi also noted that he has decided to act for the drivers on a pro bono basis as they were "not able to keep up with their installment payments" for the "small fee" he had charged them.
mr ravi's team comprises himself, as well as his knowledge manager guo rendi, senior law researcher gabriel rafferty, and paralegal sankari loganathan.
"at the same time during the pandemic came in more pro bono death penalty cases that needed urgent attention and sankari ably handled the families and distraught mothers with her kind demeanour," he said.
"on the sbs case , my entire team were and are committed to sacrificing the extra hours which has now paved way for the determination of the ambit of certain provisions of the employment act, like the meaning of" rest days"," overtime" etc.
this case will effectively also determine the rights of about 6000 sbs drivers in singapore," mr ravi added.
sbs transit is represented by a team of five lawyers from davinder singh chambers, led by senior counsel davinder singh.
on 3 mar last year, five bus drivers argued that by failing to compensate its bus drivers at the basic hourly rate of pay for their waiting time between shifts, sbs transit had breached an implied term stated in their service agreement.
the lawsuit arose after the two parties had failed to reach a settlement in their final mediation session between the first tranche of suits as reported in feb last year.
in a statement of claim filed in the state courts that month, the bus drivers alleged that the company has breached several provisions under the ea — the statutory legislation upon which the terms and conditions pertaining to their working hours and overtime were based on.
the bus drivers claimed that sbs transit had failed to compensate them at the basic hourly rate of pay "for the period between 4 a. m.  to 5 a. m.  on the morning and split shifts" in which the drivers are "engaged to be waiting", and "between 9 a. m.  and 1 p. m.  on the split shift".
sbs transit, they added, had also failed to abide by clause 24(9) of the service agreement by not compensating them the agreed allowance of $18 for work done on the night shift.
the company, they alleged, had also breached section 36(1) of the ea by failing to provide on a roster a weekly rest day.
in addition, the company had violated section 37(3)(b) and section 37(3)(c) of the ea by not paying them "the statutorily prescribed rate" of a sum at the basic rate of pay for two days' worth of work, the bus drivers argued.
by imposing a "built-in overtime" that resulted in the bus drivers working for longer than the statutorily prescribed daily work period of eight hours as well as 44 hours per week, sbs transit had also breached section 38(1) of the ea, according to the bus drivers.
other breaches under the ea allegedly made by sbs transit, as claimed by the bus drivers, include compensating them at the normal hourly rate of pay — instead of the statutorily prescribed rate of an extra day's salary at the basic rate of pay for one day's work, in addition to the gross rate of pay for that day — for work done on public holidays.
the five additional bus drivers bring the total number of bus drivers currently taking legal action against sbs transit to 13.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: member of parliament (mp) melvin yong has been elected president of the consumer association of singapore (case), the association said on friday (jun 11).
mr yong, who is mp for the radin mas single member constituency, succeeds mr lim biow chuan, who had helmed case since 2012. in a media release, case executive director lee siow hwee said mr yong was elected at its 48th annual general meeting on friday, where the new central committee was also elected or appointed into office.
mr yong, 49, is assistant secretary-general of the national trades union congress (ntuc) and executive secretary of the national transport workers' union (ntwu).
he was first elected to the case central committee in june 2018 and was appointed the role of vice-president in november 2019. as chairperson of case's consumer empowerment taskforce, he oversaw two projects that "empower consumers to make informed purchasing decisions".
one of the projects, the price kaki app, gives consumers easy access to in-store retail prices and promotions of common household items, groceries, and hawker food, according to case.
since its launch in september 2019, it has been downloaded more than 72,000 times.
the other project is fuel kaki, a website that gives consumers access to timely information on pump prices and promotions for effective comparison, said case.
since its launch in january 2020, there have been an average of 25,000 visitors a month to the website.
outgoing president mr lim was first elected case president on jun 23, 2012.  he served as vice-president from 2006 to 2012.
"under mr lim's leadership, case took firm and decisive steps to protect consumers by publicising and flagging out errant businesses and unfair practices to warn and alert consumers," said the association.
since 2012, it has issued several advisories against businesses in the beauty, motorcar, home renovation and furniture industries, "where consumers tend to purchase big-ticket items".
case also went after "recalcitrant" businesses and signed voluntary compliance agreements with 22 businesses who undertook to cease their unfair practices and compensate affected consumers, it added.
during mr lim's tenure, case said it obtained injunctions against firms engaging in unfair practices and worked closely with the competition and consumer commission of singapore to protect consumers.
mr lim led case's efforts to promote fair trading and ethical business practices among businesses and industries to boost consumer confidence, the association added.
through its arm casetrust, case has launched joint accreditation schemes with industry associations, with 771 entities accredited as at may 31. mr lim also worked with the ministry of trade and industry to advocate for the enactment of the lemon law provisions under the consumer protection (fair trading) act before it took effect in september 2012, with case holding outreach events to educate consumers and businesses on the law.
mr yong thanked mr lim and the outgoing central committee members for their contributions.
he said: "as case commemorates its 50th anniversary this year, it is timely that we take stock of our achievements and consider how we can continue to be relevant and respond to the needs of consumers.
"i will work closely with the new central committee, management and staff to look into how we can better protect and empower consumers in this new digital age.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore employers here have no legal power to force staff members to disclose their covid-19 vaccination status or demand that they get inoculated.
experts and employers noted that while vaccination is strongly encouraged in singapore, it remains voluntary, although there are several ways people can be encouraged to get a jab.
these will come more into focus as singapore begins rolling out covid-19 vaccinations to the wider population, with bookings open to singaporeans aged 12 to 39 from friday (june 11).
singapore human resources institute (shri) president low peck kem told the straits times that unless there is a business need, employers should not compel staff to disclose if they have had a jab or take punitive action against those who do not get inoculated or refuse to update their vaccination status.
"even if there is a strong business need, such as needing to know in order to determine if the employee can travel for business or to deploy to higher-risk front-line facing roles, do explain clearly why the company needs to know the status and generally, most employees will comply," she said.
institute for human resource professionals (ihrp) chief executive mayank parekh said that bosses should not use non-vaccination as a reason to terminate employment as there could be medical reasons for why a staff member did not get a shot.
mr tan wei ming, senior associate at law firm cms holborn asia, said that if employers want to keep records on vaccinated employees that contain personal data such as names, they must do so in accordance with the personal data protection act and other applicable data protection laws.
"for these reasons, companies in singapore are unlikely to make their employees declare their vaccination status at this juncture," he added.
wongpartnership joint head of employment practice jenny tsin said staff members should not face discrimination arising from their vaccination status, given that its voluntary.
however, there could be circumstances that warrant a different approach, such as for jobs involving higher risk of exposure to covid-19, she added.
in this instance, it could be more justified to limit return to the workplace to only vaccinated employees.
investment bank goldman sachs recently ordered its employees in the united states to report their covid-19 vaccination status as part of their plans to return to the office, afp reported on thursday.
st understands that goldman sachs is not requiring staff here to report their vaccination status, and that most are still working from home.
while professional services firm ey strongly encourages its eligible staff to get vaccinated, it does not require them to declare their status given that immunisation is not mandatory, said the singapore and brunei managing partner max loh.
uob human resources head dean tong said the bank has been encouraging staff in critical roles to get vaccinated since the government announced its roll-out to essential workers in the financial sector in march.
st understands that uob does not track the vaccination status of employees.
meanwhile, sembcorp industries has introduced an app that provides voluntary updates on a person's vaccination status.
the app, which was developed in-house, is also used to obtain online approval for essential facility visits.
an amazon spokesman said that the company's employees and associates are generally not required to declare their vaccination status, except for staff members who are travelling to singapore from overseas.
the firm also provides a cash benefit to front-line employees and associates who are paid by the hour when they get their vaccination off-site.
shri's ms low and mr parekh from ihrp said employers can encourage immunisation by communicating the benefits to their staff as well as incentivising vaccination through means such as time off after getting the jabs and giving workers a care package.
mr samir bedi, asean workforce advisory leader at ey, noted that it would not be surprising to see employers including vaccination as a pre-requisite in job descriptions in future, particularly for front-line positions that require face-to-face interactions.
"this not only protects employees and their families, but also ensures the public's safety.
employees who travel for work may also need to comply with pre-travel vaccination travel regulations," he said.
but companies must remain inclusive and consider the needs of individuals who may not be able to get vaccinated due to health reasons, mr bedi said.
he added: "this requires employers to continue with precautionary safe workplace measures while ensuring equal career opportunities for all.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore a local company is being investigated for manufacturing surgical masks here without a licence, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
this is the first time a firm is suspected of that action.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent, with the masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
a total of 33 cartons, each containing about 2,500 masks, were seized.
under the health products act, firms are required to have a licence from hsa to manufacture surgical masks.
vision empire international was also suspected to have imported surgical masks from overseas before repackaging, rebranding and reselling them without having a licence to do so.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
they were sold on local e-commerce platforms for between $10 and $22 per box of 50 masks, according to preliminary investigations.
consumers who have made purchases are advised to stop using them immediately, hsa said.
it added that these listings have been removed with the assistance of the platform administrators, and vision empire international has been directed to recall the products.
investigations are ongoing, the authority said.
manufacturers and repackers of surgical masks are licensed by hsa to ensure good quality and safety for use.
in its release, the authority said surgical masks from unlicensed facilities have not been verified to meet the standards of quality, filtration capability and breathability.
[[nid:487670]]"sub-standard masks may not provide the desirable level of protection to the wearer," it added, noting that masks made, repackaged and/or stored in unsanitary conditions could be contaminated.
"wearing such masks may increase the users' risk of developing skin irritation, respiratory symptoms or infections," hsa said.
it will take strong enforcement action against those who illegally manufacture and/or supply masks.
those who do so could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for up to two years or fined up to $50,000, or both.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a wider range of sports activities will be allowed in the coming weeks when singapore enters phase three (heightened alert) on monday (june 14).
selected organised outdoor programmes with a cap of five people up from two may resume, while from june 21, sport competitions and tournaments without spectators will be given the green light as long as they do not exceed 50 persons in each facility.
these were among the latest updates in sport singapore's (sportsg) advisory issued on friday.
the rules for outdoor training for youth and children aged 18 and under will be eased progressively.
for the first week, low- and high-intensity activities will be kept to a maximum of five.
from june 21, this will increase to 30 with multiple groups of five.
for adults, the five-person cap for high-intensity activities will be relaxed from june 21 as well.
swimfast aquatic group founder david lim welcomed the changes.
his academy has been operating at 20 per cent for the past month during the heightened measures for phase 2. high-intensity outdoor activities such as swimming, where masks have to be removed, were restricted to two people and no multiple groups of two are allowed.
this includes the coach or instructor.
as such, lim had to suspend the academy's learn-to-swim sessions since the start of the current heightened phase began on may 16 and continued only his competitive swimming sessions.
he said: "it's a relief, we can legitimately carry on the classes.
now, we're only doing competitive swimming, so it's no different.
we're just like a pool operator.
swimmers book a lane and swim by themselves.
"now we don't have to juggle such small numbers.
we can carry out lessons with four swimmers to one coach.
that ratio is a huge difference to us because when it's one-to-one, we're definitely losing money.
"the multi-ministry task force on thursday had indicated that mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
national agency sportsg's latest update permitting sports competitions as long as different sessions are adequately separated within a day or across multiple days to avoid congregation was welcomed by organisers like lld sports development and management founder lyn yeo.
her company is hoping to get approval for the cartimes singapore junior development tour championship.
the golf event at laguna national was postponed from its original may 31-june 2 date.
she said: "june is typically the busiest tournament season for junior golfers and we are hoping with great excitement that we are able to resume.
"some measures that organisers plan to have in place include temperature screening and safe entry protocols, as well as restricting each flight to two buggies, which have been installed with a full partition.
players and officials will also be required to wear masks throughout their rounds.
for gyms and fitness studios, many of whom are closed due to current restrictions, they will be allowed to restart operations from june 21. staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing, which is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities.
this will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
sportsg also announced that the occupancy limit for sport and recreational facilities will be increased to one person per 10 sq m from one person per 16 sq m, capped at 50 people.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: a judge has granted a bid by a former bus driver to have his case against sbs transit for allegedly unfair work practices – including long work hours and unpaid overtime – heard in the high court.
justice audrey lim said in a written judgment released on thursday (jun 10) that the case raises important questions of law to warrant the move to the higher court from the magistrate's courts.
although the case was mounted by one bus driver, mr chua qwong meng, another 12 drivers are linked to it.
mr chua claims that about s$720,000 is involved in the allegations of all 13 suits, which include unpaid overtime fees and contentions on the maximum consecutive number of work days allowed.
the case affects not only the bus driver in the case but a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector, said the judge.
lawyer m ravi represented mr chua and the other 12 bus drivers, while sbs transit was represented by a team of lawyers led by senior counsel davinder singh.
mr chua worked for sbs transit from april 2017 to early 2020.  he commenced his suit against the company for breaches of contract and provisions of the employment act on sep 20, 2019. four other bus drivers commenced similar proceedings in the magistrates' courts that same day, and another eight drivers launched their own suits subsequently.
in total, 13 bus drivers are suing sbs transit over what the judge said are essentially the same matters pertaining to their employment.
they are: mr chua, mr lee chye chong, mr chian poh seng, mr fung chean seng, mr tan ting hock robin, mr thiyagu balan, mr gan kim kiam, mr huzainal hussein, mr lim you onn, mr chiew yi yee, mr meerah mohamed halideen, mr razak hasim and mr mohamad sani din.
it was agreed on mar 4 last year that mr chua's case would be heard as a test case, with the other 12 suits held in abeyance pending the determination of his case.
mr chua's claimsmr chua claims that sbs transit breached the employment act by not giving him a rest day per week.
its employment practices were also allegedly in breach of the manpower ministry's regulated pay rate that an employer is expected to pay for work done during a rest day.
mr chua also claims that he was underpaid for overtime work, and that the company did not pay him the statutorily prescribed rate for working on a rest day.
as a result, he worked in excess of the prescribed work hours in a day or week.
he also claims that the company did not pay him an agreed allowance for work done on the night shift.
sbs transit denies the claims and asserts that it has complied with contractual obligations and laws, rules or regulations on working hours, overtime pay and rest days.
it claims that it compensated mr chua in compliance with his employment contract, which started in 2017, as well as with the law and the manpower ministry's guidelines.
mr ravi's arguments, and mr davinder singh'smr ravi argued for the case to be transferred to the high court as it involves an important question of law and is a test case.
he said the questions of law which include how "rest days" are interpreted and whether an employee can work for 12 consecutive days over a 14-day period will impact not only the plaintiffs but the whole of the employment sector in singapore.
the 13 suits amount to s$720,000, which is beyond the district court's limit, he said.
mr singh objected to having the case heard in the high court, claiming abuse of court process and saying there is no important question of law.
he said there is nothing to suggest that the issues raise difficult or complex issues.
the state courts regularly deal with disputes involving the interpretation of employment agreements and the provisions of the employment act, he added.
he said mr chua has not shown credible evidence that damages in his suit would exceed s$250,000, the jurisdictional limit of the district court.
justice lim said an important question of law need not necessarily be a complex or difficult one, and that just because the state courts deal with employment disputes does not mean there may not be important questions of law in the provisions of the employment act.
she found that the questions of law in this case are important ones which affect a larger class of employees, pointing to how 12 other drivers filed similar suits.
"the employment act provides for mandated rest days and limits to hours of work (among other matters) to protect the rights of employees," she said.
"the question of whether this can be 'overridden' in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services, which on its face may not look like a difficult question, is important as it affects a larger population of workers in general," the judge said.
the case would have potential ramifications on how such contracts are structured in terms of granting days off, computing overtime pay and determining work hours, she added.
in a statement, sbs transit said it respects justice lim's decision and "will continue to vigorously contest the bus captains' claims in the high court".
the case will be heard at a later date.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a 4-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his 3-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000) is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020 was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have 3 or 4 room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a 2-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his 4-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
new delhi: india on saturday (jun 12) reported 84,332 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 case load now stands at 29.
4 million, while total fatalities are at 367,081, data.
india added 4,002 deaths overnight.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, but the discovery ofseveral thousand unreported deaths in the state of biharhas raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
cleaners in singapore will see their salaries increase each year over six years from 2023, after the proposals made by the tripartite cluster for cleaners (tcc) on cleaning wage ladder were accepted by the government earlier on monday (7 june).
starting from 2023 to 2028, the base wages for cleaners who are singaporean and permanent residents will go up on a year-on-year basis.
under the progressive wage model (pwm), the increase will be for cleaners across all job levels and it will rise up to between s$1,570 and s$2,210 in 2023.  the amount will subsequently increase by at least s$170 annually until 2028. for example, a full-time general or indoor cleaner will be entitled for a monthly wage of s$1,570 in july 2023.  this means the worker gets a pay hike of s$258, which is nearly 20 percent increase from the recommended salary of s$1,312 in 2022. on the other hand, the recommended annual increments for pwm from 1 july 2020 to 30 june 2023 was 3 percent a year.
the basic salary of cleaners has gradually went up over the years, and now it stands at s$1,236.
under the pwm, it is expected to go up to s$1,274 in july this year and to s$1,312 in july 2022. based on this new wage adjustments, workers in different categories like restroom cleaners and healthcare cleaners will be paid at least s$1,795 yearly.
higher-skilled employees such as supervisors and mechanical drivers will be given at least s$2,210.
it is said that this new system will benefit about 40,000 resident cleaners hired by more than 1,500 cleaning businesses.
"this is a timely and necessary review to recognise the importance and higher value of work shouldered by our cleaners, particularly during the covid-19 pandemic," said tcc and the national trades union congress (ntuc) in a joint media statement on monday.
the pwm is created to raise the wages of lower-wage workers by upgrading their skills and increasing their productivity, and it has been a licensing condition for cleaning companies since 2014. according to ntuc, a survey conducted in 2020 found that almost all respondents pointed out that the job of cleaners has become more important, and 95 percent expressed that they should be paid higher.
this is also the first wage review that takes reference from the tripartite workgroup on lower-wage workers' objective to ensure that wage growth is "ambitious enough to close the gap with workers earning median wages".
"in this pandemic, most of our workers, or cleaners are out there on the frontline .
.
.
we really need to show a commitment and our gratitude for what they've done, keeping singapore safe," said member of parliament mohd fahmi aliman (pap-marine parade).
he added, "i strongly urge all stakeholders to play a part in ensuring that our essential services workers in the environmental service industry can work with dignity.
"on monday, it was also announced that training guidelines for cleaners to get at least two workforce skills qualification (wsq) certificates in environmental cleaning modules or the equivalent have to be fulfilled by december 2022.
"this will help cleaners ensure their personal safety when carrying out cleaning tasks, especially with the increased cleaning demands and standards brought on by covid-19," said tcc and ntuc.
after 2025, the number of wsq that general cleaners are required to complete will be increased to three.
as for those in higher job roles, they must complete four modules.
chairman of the tcc and ntuc assistant director-general zainal sapari noted that the proposed wage ladders was made after extensive discussion and consultations with industry stakeholders.
besides justifying the value of the work cleaners do, the "aggressive wage increase" also tries and hopes to narrow the gap between their wages and the salaries of other workers, said mr zainal.
as for whether there's a target percentage of the media salary that cleaners' pay should eventually be pegged to, mr zainal asserted that it is "premature", but noted that the goal is for the annual wage increase to be higher than the median annual increase so the salary gap can be narrowed.
additionally, mr zainal also said that the wage increase is done to also attract the younger generation into the industry.
"we want to attract a younger workforce into this industry.
we want this to be a possible career that they can consider, compared to going into the gig economy," he noted.
president of the environment management association of singapore tony chooi pointed out that he hopes the people of singapore would not pick a job as a cleaner as their "last resort".
"we are trying all ways to see how we are able to build the industry into something that is more attractive," he said.
when asked if the higher salaries will cause cleaning companies to hire more foreigners instead, mr zainal said that this should not happen as the sector is regulated by the dependency ratio ceiling which is basically a quota for hiring singaporean workers, channel news asia (cna) said.
upon reading this news, netizens commented in the facebook page of channel news asia (cna) asking why is the wage increase not happening now, but only in 2023.  they said that this salary increment is "long overdue" and it should be implemented now so cleaners don't suffer more from the current "below sustainable income".
others slammed the authorities as they noted that the gradual salary hike is still lower than other developed nations like japan.
one user even noted that the wages of cleaners in european countries, the us and taiwan are higher than white-collar managers.
separately, a number of online users called for the government to implement a "minimum wage" for all low-skilled jobs.
they said this is so the workers are not cheated, be given basic benefits like medical subsidies and more.
a couple of them asserted that the pwm should also be applied to other industries as many employers have been underpaying their staff.
one user noted that by increasing salaries of singaporeans and permanent residents in other sectors, it will "(debunk) the myth typically coined that local can't work tough jobs".
responding to the authorities point that they hope an increased salary for cleaners will attract the youngsters into the industry, netizens asked if politicians will allow their kids to be a cleaner in the first place.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: while the announcement of an impending easing of pandemic curbs brought relief to some business sectors, several players in the food and beverage industry expressed disappointment at having to wait a little longer.
the covid-19 multi-ministry task forceannounced on thursday (jun 10) that singapore will exit the current phase 2 (heightened alert) measures in two stages.
some activities including facials and saunas will be allowed to resume from jun 14, while others such as dining-in at f&b establishments will only start from jun 21, provided the covid-19 situation remains under control.
ms hazel chua, a supervisor at birdie num num gastrobar, told cna that after thursday's announcement, the eatery had to cancel and reschedule customers' reservations.
many had indicated that they would visit the restaurant on the day of their original booking to do takeaways instead.
a few regulars had also taken the initiative to reschedule their reservations after learning about the phased reopening, she added.
"maybe because we half-expected it already, we didn't feel too much of a shock.
just told ourselves to take it easy, and (it is) just another week or so," she said.
ms chua estimates that business has dropped about 80 to 90 per cent in the past month.
"we serve our own food, but there are a lot of people who come here and they drink beer .
.
.
so i think they come here, mostly a lot for the environment as well.
although this time we adapted to it, we did takeaway for draft beers, we still saw the decline in our revenue for sure.
"for the owner of french restaurant the masses, there was a bit of "sadness" when he found out that dining-in may only begin on jun 21.
"but at the end of the day, i believe we have already pulled through that so-called one month," said mr dylan ong.
"i think waiting on another week more, mainly it's just to be sure.
"the restaurant had been working with the expectation that dining-in would resume on jun 14. f&b operators continuing to "haemorrhage"in a statement released on facebook on thursday, the restaurant association of singapore's president andrew kwan said that he was "disappointed" that the restrictions for dining-in would not be lifted from jun 14 "as was keenly hoped for".
"our f&b operators are continuing to haemorrhage with each extended day of 'no dine-in'.
members shared that the weekly burn rates to cover manpower and rentals alone range from a few thousand to over half a million dollars," mr kwan said.
"every additional day of low-to-no revenues will be the proverbial straw that breaks the camel's back.
"while mr kwan noted his appreciation for the government's extension of the jobs support scheme, which subsidies local workers' salaries, he urged other stakeholders like landlords to "step up" and "jointly share in the huge impact sustained by their tenants".
"without the ability to generate regular revenues, tenants are simply unable to pay full, unmitigated rentals," he said.
mr kwan also requested priority vaccinations for staff in the f&b sector who are in daily contact with the public.
"they are frontliners who are performing the mission critical role of feeding our population on a daily basis.
we must protect them as they go about carrying out their tasks faithfully.
""hawkers will be feeling quite disappointed"hawkers had also been hopeful that dining-in would resume on jun 14 and had been preparing for it, said chairman of the federation of merchants' associations singapore's (fmas) hawker division anthony low.
"from the past one month, quite a number of hawkers have been struggling.
so (with) the extension for one more week, i believe many of the hawkers will be feeling quite disappointed," he said.
while the government had provided support for rentals, table-cleaning and centralised dishwashing services for phase 2 (heightened alert), hawkers were unsure if this support would cover the additional week from jun 14.
"we will try to put up the request, because even (an extension) of seven days without the table-cleaning fee .
.
.
would be at least some relief for us," he said.
terry neo, founder of kopifellas, a chain of several food and drinks stalls, said that he had "mixed feelings" on the jun 21 reopening.
"we were definitely hopeful that we could start on the 14th, but at least on the other hand i'm glad that it's only just one week more," he said.
"we're just crossing our fingers because if things head south again then we probably will not even open up on the 21st.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's movement control order, known as mco 3.
0, will be extended for another two weeks from jun 15 to jun 28. senior minister for defence ismail sabri yaakob announced in a statement on friday (jun 11) that the decision to extend the mco 3.
0 was made as daily case numbers still exceeded 5,000.
"the positive/negative list (permitted and prohibited activities) and standard operating procedures (sops) for every manufacturing, business and industrial activity still remains as announced before this," he said after attending a national security council meeting.
in may, a nationwide mco was re-imposed in malaysia amid a third wave of covid-19 cases.
known as mco 3.
0, all economic sectors were allowed to operate during the period but cross-district and interstate travel as well as social, sports and educational activities were prohibited.
stricter restrictions on the economic and social sectors were later announced on may 21 as community cases continued to rise.
the emergence of new variants have also delayed efforts to flatten the infection curve, the prime minister's office had said.
on may 28, prime minister muhyiddin yassin announced that the country would go intototal lockdownfor 14 days beginning jun 1, with only essential economic and service sectors allowed to carry on with their operations.
case number breached the 9,000-mark on may 29, before the lockdown measures brought daily infections down gradually.
on friday, a total of 6,846 cases were reported.
if the first phase of total lockdown could reduce the number of daily cases, then the country would ease into a four-week second phase, where more economic sectors would be allowed to reopen.
phase 3 would be similar to the movement control order (mco) that has been enforced in the country, where nearly all economic sectors are allowed to operate with strict sops.
the progression from one phase to another would be subject to the ministry of health's risk assessments.
as of friday, malaysia's national covid-19 tally stood at 646,411. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as singapore moves to phase three (heightened alert) from next monday (june 14), gyms and fitness studios will have to wait a little longer to find out if they can resume their indoor operations.
the multi-ministry task force (mtf) said on thursday that if the coronavirus situation remains under control in the coming weeks, gyms and fitness studios will be allowed to resume indoor mask-off sports activities with safe management measures in place from june 21. these measures include social distancing of at least 2m between individuals and at least 3m between groups of up to five people.
indoor and outdoor sports classes can also be carried out in multiple groups of five, with a cap of 30 people, including the instructor.
participants will be allowed to unmask if they are doing strenuous activities, but are encouraged to remain masked where possible.
under the current heightened measures for phase two, which took effect on may 16, only low-intensity physical activities such as yoga and pilates can take place at public and private gyms and fitness studios.
organised programmes and classes for low-intensity activities have been allowed to carry out their sessions only in groups of two.
singapore fitness alliance president sean tan said the latest announcement was a pleasant surprise for the industry as many had not expected activities that did not require the wearing of masks to resume so soon.
tan, who is also the director of true group, said: "in general the fitness industry has been elated with today's announcement as we will reopen on june 21 with a masks-off policy, and that is a huge relief.
"it underscores the government's belief that the fitness sector is an important one, and we can get back to getting people back in our gyms and studios to resume their fitness regimens.
"he added that the extension of the job support scheme (jss) to help sectors that are required to remain closed till june 20 was helpful and was welcome by those in the industry.
the affected sectors will receive 10 per cent jss support from june 21 to 30. when indoor activities in gyms and fitness studios are allowed to resume, staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing.
this is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities, which will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
tan acknowledged that it was something the industry would have to abide by in order for businesses to reopen and believes that it would give members the confidence to return to gyms.
but while the government will cover the cost of testing over the next three months, he expressed concerns about the added costs for gyms and fitness studios beyond that as they have already seen their revenues heavily impacted by the pandemic.
the operating costs for many outfits have already increased due to enhanced cleaning, disinfecting and sanitisation measures.
he added: "we hope that the testing costs will not be prohibitive, and that there can be more support for these costs.
"mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
from next monday, spectators will be allowed to return to sports events such as football's singapore premier league or mixed martial arts outfit one championship's shows.
the number of spectators will be capped at 250 attendees with pre-event testing, while no testing is required for events with 50 or fewer attendees.
a spokesman from the football association of singapore said: "as the spl is only due to resume next month, the football association of singapore will continue to monitor prevailing measures in place and will decide the conditions for re-entry of spl fans into match venues closer to the league's resumption period.
"read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the workers' party (wp) member of parliament (mp) for sengkang grc jamus lim took to facebook on wednesday (9 june) to share his views on the government's latest announcement of increasing the wages for cleaners in singapore.
on monday (7 june), the government revealed that the salaries of cleaners who are singaporeans and permanent resident (pr) will go up each year over six years from 2023, under the progressive wage model (pwm).
based on pwm, the increase will be for cleaners across all job levels and it will rise up to between s$1,570 and s$2,210 in 2023.  the amount will subsequently increase by at least s$170 yearly until 2028. for example, a full-time general or indoor cleaner will be entitled for a monthly wage of s$1,570 in july 2023.  this means the worker gets a pay hike of s$258, which is nearly 20 percent increase from the recommended salary of s$1,312 in 2022. commenting about the pwm, mr lim said it is will affect the salary structures of about 30,000 workers.
"this new policy specifies different wage progression paths for different categories.
by 2028, the lowest-wage category will have a gross pay of s$2,420, which will be above the #workersparty universal minimum wage (mw) call of s$1,300 take-home full-time equivalent," the mp noted.
however, he expressed that his main issue with the pwm is on how slow it has been rolled-out, as well as its lack of guarantee that the minimum wage of those in the lowest-wage sector/category will hit the s$1,300 take-home amount.
"in other words, we should get the minimum wage bit of the so-called minimum wage-plus (mw+) model—what senior minister tharman called the pwm—right.
then tinker with productivity ladders, increments, whatnot.
don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good.
"so, i view this implementation of pwm as substantial progress (no pun intended) that will improve the welfare of singaporeans and permanent residents.
this, of course, has been the premise behind fighting for minimum wages all along," stated mr lim.
if that's not all, the progressive salary increment of cleaners would also mean that other prices will go up, said the alternative party member.
"from a town council perspective, future contract bids will be higher, which could affect town council finances and impact s&cc charges (fortunately, we are locked into contracts for around 3/4 #sengkanggrc divisions)," he explained.
but, this is a good thing for the society because minimum wages help "correct imbalances in employer-employee bargaining power", the politician said.
"the small increase in prices that everyone pays vastly improves the lives of low wage, essential workers.
moreover, higher prices can beget quality.
we often think of how, if workers raise their productivity, this will beget higher wages.
but it could happen the other way round: when wages rise, it spurs investments that foster productivity, which in turn boosts quality," he expressed.
he continued, "i hope that we can implement the mw+ model to even more sectors, and phase in changes more quickly.
still, we should recognize this policy move for what it is: a genuine step in the right direction, along the lines of what the #workersparty has sought.
#makingyourvotecount. "
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
with schools moving to home-based learning, the dining-in prohibition, and social gatherings being capped at two people during phase 2 (heightened alert), we've had fewer reasons to head out and more reasons to stay in.
but has this led to more couples getting it on?
going off all the condom hoarding going on during last year's circuit breaker period, you might expect a spike in bedroom activity this time around too.
well, according to a straw poll conducted by asiaone of 16 sexually active adults between the ages of 18 and 44, that might not necessarily be the case — only 12 respondents said that they are still sexually active during this period.
of those who are sexually active, though, some have seen an improvement in their sex lives thanks to a surge in sexual activity.
one such individual is damien*, who went from having sex once a week to getting at it daily.
attributing the change in behaviour to "boredom", damien shared that in general, he has a neutral stance towards sex and does not feel like it is a crucial factor in the relationship.
but with the increase in sex, his relationship with his partner has become stronger during this period, he said.
[[nid:529380]]another respondent whose sex life has improved is sharon*, who feels like the pandemic has given her more opportunities to spend time with her partner.
she shared that to her, sex is "essential and intimate, as it's something you only share with someone you're in a relationship with".
overall, the amount of sex she has with her partner hasn't changed and they're still doing it around twice a week.
however, she said that with "less face-to-face work and social obligations", they have "more time to focus on each other", which translates to better sex.
unfortunately, not everyone shares the same sentiments.
around a quarter of our respondents noted deterioration in their sex lives ever since phase 2 (heightened alert) kicked in.
one such individual is jazymn*, who cites her hectic work schedule and rising stress levels as a reason.
while she and her partner still are sexually active, their quality of sex has dropped thanks to the stressors brought on by the pandemic.
and couples aren't the only ones who are struggling.
lisa*, who is not in a relationship, told us that the pandemic has affected her sex life too.
to her, sex is all about the "fun and pleasure".
prior to phase 2 (heightened alert), she would have sex around thrice a week with her friends with benefits.
sadly, when the new restrictions kicked in, this meant less sex for her.
"i can't meet my friends with benefits as much," she said.
while having less sex has left some of our respondents unsatisfied, others are pretty chill about the situation.
singles like h* and wn* don't think of sex as a huge priority and to h, "sex is just a way to relieve stress", so he isn't too fussed about how often he gets to engage in the act.
for him, it all depends on "the availabilities of [his] friends with benefits".
when asked about how his sex life has been affected during phase 2 (heightened alert), wn, who is single, simply said: "it depends on who i manage to get. "
and for some, the physical connection isn't the only thing that has gone through changes during this period — the emotional aspect of the relationship feels different too.
[[nid:524562]]take felicia*, for example.
she told us she still has sex with her partner once a week, and overall, their sex life has remained pretty much the same.
however, when it comes to the emotional part of their relationship, she feels that the pandemic has actually helped to improve their connection and they've "become closer".
bob* is another individual who said that spending more time at home has not changed the amount of sex he gets, and he still does so once a week.
however, his situation is quite the opposite of felicia's.
"spending more time together than usual results in more opportunities but less excitement," he admitted.
apart from that, there are other issues for him to deal with.
"my 'working spouse' appears to be a different person," he confessed when asked about how the pandemic has affected his relationship.
but at the end of the day, it all boils down to adapting to the new norm and riding through these hard times.
one such couple who have managed to do so is nicholas* and his girlfriend.
while they now have fewer opportunities to meet and spend time together, the decrease in sex does not bother them whatsoever.
instead, they make up for the lack of physical intimacy by gaming and meeting more often online.
in these extraordinary, fluid times where things are always changing, it's important to be able to react and adapt to new and different situations.
while it definitely isn't easy, it's heartening to know that we're not alone.
*not their real namesmelissateo@asiaone.
com
singapore: working from home will remain the default arrangement, even as singapore transitions to phase 3 (heightened alert) in the coming weeks.
"employers should ensure that employees who are able to work from home continue to do so," said co-chair of the covid-19 multi-ministry task force lawrence wong on thursday's (jun 10) press conference.
"we think that's still necessary in order to minimise movement and to minimise risk," he said.
companies should continue to stagger start times of employees and implement flexible working hours, said mr wong, who is also the finance minister.
workers also should not be cross-deployed to multiple worksites, added the ministry of health (moh) in a press release on thursday.
the government announced on may 14 thatworking from home will become the default for workplacesafter a spike in covid-19 community infections.
it was part of a slew of measures under phase 2 (heightened alert) aimed at bringing down the number of cases.
on when people will be allowed to resume working from offices, mr wong said on thursday that authorities will take a "phased approach".
"the embers are still there, we do not want to encourage too much movement.
we resume activities progressively but we do not want everything to happen all at the same time," he said.
the government will monitor the situation over the coming weeks, the minister said.
should cases remain "generally low and under control", vaccination rates rise and a "good and comprehensive testing regime" is in place, it may reconsider its position on working from home, he added.
jobs support scheme extendedthe jobs support scheme (jss), which subsidies local workers' salaries, will be extended for certain sectors that are required to remain closed until jun 20, said mr wong.
this is part of the staggered reopening under phase 3 (heightened alert), where some sectors will not be allowed to reopen until jun 21. they will receive 10 per cent jss support from jun 21 to jun 30. activities reopening on jun 21 include dining-in at f&b establishments, live performances, mask-off sports activities at gyms and fitness studios and in-person tuition and enrichment classes.
for taxi and private-hire drivers, the covid-19 driver relief fund will be extended for three more months at s$300 per month per vehicle for two months and s$150 for per vehicle for the next one month.
the continued support adds up to s$40 million and will help more than 50,000 taxi and private hire car drivers, said the land transport authority.
on top of this, taxi operators have pledged to continue providing rental waivers of at least s$12 million during this three-month extension of the support scheme.
regular testing for staff in unmasked activitiespeople who work in high-risk settings with unmasked customers will have to undergo regular covid-19 testing, regardless of their vaccination status.
this includes staff of dine-in f&b outlets, personal care and appearance services that require removal of masks such as facials, saunas and make-up services, and gym and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.
mandatory tests will be progressively rolled out to larger establishments first and extended to smaller businesses after.
for dine-in f&b outlets, testing will be rolled out starting from next month.
the capacity for the fast and easy testing regime will be "aggressively ramped up" in the coming months, moh said.
tests such as the antigen rapid test will be used.
the cost of the tests will be covered by the government for the next three months, said mr wong.
this is in view of the heightened alert period and that people, especially those in high-risk settings, are tested frequently, he said.
"beyond that, i think employers themselves will have to start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their business continuity plans," he said.
more details of the mandatory testing will be announced later, the health ministry said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore ion orchard will be shut for four days from saturday (june 12) for cleaning and disinfecting works after the ministry of health (moh) confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
the mall will be closed from 7am on saturday till 7am on wednesday.
on friday, moh reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion orchard had tested positive for covid-19.
currently an unlinked case, she is the third worker at ion orchard to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall until june 16. the other two cases linked to the mall are a retail assistant who works at the four leaves outlet there and a repair worker at grandwork interior.
ion orchard confirmed that it was notified by the authorities to close for four days in light of the recent rise in covid-19 cases.
during the closure, the mall will carry out deep cleansing and disinfection of its premises in line with guidelines issued by the authorities.
"during this period, shoppers or members of the public will not be allowed to enter the mall," it said.
however, both ion orchard link and ion paterson link, which are underground pedestrian networks, will remain accessible round the clock.
epidemiological investigations indicate ongoing transmission within the mall, according to a notice to tenants on friday.
moh said special testing operations will be conducted for staff who had been working at the mall from may 28 to disrupt any undetected community transmission.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to friday will also be offered free covid-19 testing.
those who had only walked through the mall to connect to neighbouring buildings or orchard mrt station need not be tested.
the ministry said shoppers who visited the mall from june 3 to june 11 should monitor their health closely and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for two weeks from their date of visit.
they are also encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell.
both ion orchard link and ion paterson link, which are underground pedestrian networks, will remain accessible round the clock.
st photo: gin tay

staff were seen packing up at shops in ion orchard on friday (june 11) evening.
photo: lianhe zaobao
ion orchard told the straits times it has implemented various cleaning measures since the coronavirus outbreak started.
these include increasing the frequency of cleaning and disinfecting of key touch points in the mall's common areas such as lift buttons, hand-rails and auto-door panels.
hand sanitisers are also provided at the mall entrances, lifts and concierge counters.
"the safety and well-being of our shoppers, visitors, and working communities are of utmost importance to us.
we will continue to monitor the situation and work closely with the authorities on the necessary precautionary measures," said the mall.
"for the period of the mall closure, our tenants will receive the necessary support, including rental waivers, to help them ride through this period.
"tenants have up to 6pm on saturday to remove the stocks from their store.
mr james quan, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, was informed of the closure at about 5pm on friday.
the 53-year-old was told that testing for the staff would be done in the mall's carpark.
"i think this is the right thing to do, to make sure that safety comes first and ensure that the coast is clear," he said.
"so i think it's better to just close for four days and hope everything will return to normal on june 16.
"read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
climate impact x is a welcome addition to the country's climate action initiatives that provide new economic opportunities, help price discovery and can aid future compliance, say energy researchers.
singapore: singapore took another big step in advancing the green agenda last month.
the country on may 20 announced plans to position itself as a hub for carbon services.
climate impact x (cix) is a joint venture between the development bank of singapore, singapore exchange, standard chartered bank and temasek holdings.
first envisioned by the emerging stronger taskforce's alliance for action on sustainability, cix will provide a marketplace for trading carbon credits commencing in late 2021. singapore is well-suited to hosting a carbon marketplace.
it is an ideal base for multinational companies working on projects that generate emission credits across the region.
as a regional leader for commodities trading, singapore also deals with many energy majors and traders who will form a large part of the clientele for carbon market ancillary services.
there are already around 30 firms here offering carbon consulting services, which include low-carbon project development, consulting and verification for the registration of certified emissions-reduction credits, carbon footprint measurement, project financing and legal services.
the launch of a carbon marketplace can attract more of such consultancies in a key growth industry.
(what will cix bring to the table of carbon trading and climate action?
find out on the climate conversations.
)a welcome addition to singapore's climate action initiativescix is a welcome addition to the suite of emission-cutting initiatives and institutions in singapore that helps the country accelerate its peak and net-zero emissions timelines.
under the paris agreement, singapore'snationally determined contributionis to peak emissions at 65 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent around 2030.  singapore also seeks to halve peak emissions to 33 million tonnes by 2050 and achieve net zero emissions as soon as viable during the second half of the century.
a key innovation of cix includes provisions for trading nature-based solutions.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
nature-based climate solutions like mangroves, wetlands and forests can absorb vast amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
a recent study by researchers at the nus centre for nature-based climate solutions estimates reforestation in southeast asia can contribute to 3.
4 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions reductions per year.
reforestation, coupled with supply chain transparency and harmonised standards for carbon offsets, can translate into a ready source of carbon credits.
as an exchange focused on such carbon credits, cix will enhance the climate finance ecosystem within singapore and expand the range of mechanisms for firms to manage and price their carbon externalities.
google, microsoft and amazon are said to be in talks to use cix in their journey to become net-zero emitters.
moreover, it offers another way for singapore to widen the international scope of its environmental management activities.
the right price for carboncix can aid with the adjustment of singapore's carbon tax – which came into effect in january 2019 – by expanding the array of tools used for pricing carbon in singapore.
this will permit the singapore government some freedom when discussing future, probably upward revision to the current tax, since local firms will have the ability to defray their "carbon costs" in other ways.
the current tax rate of s$5 per tonne of co2 can be contested for three reasons.
first, the abatement costs are typically considered much higher, and ideally, carbon price would reflect the cost of abatement.
a world bank report published in may notes that a price of us$40 to us$80 (s$50 to s$100) per tonne of co2 is needed to meet the 2 degrees celsius goal.
second, the s$5 price tag might not fully capture carbon embedded in international supply chains and trade.
this has spurred debate around the need for carbon border adjustment mechanisms – a tool for ensuring that domestic and imported goods price their embodied emissions equally, thereby discouraging trade with high-polluting countries that do not have effective carbon pricing mechanisms of their own.
third, singapore's carbon pricing is arguably not a sufficiently liquid mechanism because it changes infrequently.
the government has plans to increase the tax rate to between s$10 and s$15 per tonne by 2030.  the tax level and trajectory post-2023 will be reviewed by 2022, in consultation with industry and expert groups in order to give businesses and opportunity to adjust to changes.
there is wisdom in introducing market-based mechanisms to facilitate the price discovery process and allow emissions to be priced into commercial decisions.
in the absence of such a mechanism, finding the right price for carbon is complex.
it requires striking a balance between reducing the carbon footprint of industries and increasing the costs of doing business, which may negatively impact the competitiveness of singapore's economy.
however, with the pandemic still evolving, the success of singapore's carbon services hub should not be assumed.
increased and quantifiable demand for carbon offsets also suggest an upward trend in emissions-intensive activities in the near term.
getting companies to play ballthe cix is also a first step to getting companies to play ball on singapore's climate obligations.
demand for carbon offsets could arise from several sources.
companies currently paying carbon taxes may purchase credits to defray their carbon tax liability.
similarly, firms or other speculators may purchase credits to trade later for a premium, should this be allowed under the carbon pricing act.
retail trade from individuals seeking socially responsible investment options can also be expected.
yet singapore must not forget there are no industry-level mandatory reduction targets.
many carbon commitments by corporations in the region are currently voluntary, which may limit market participation.
regulation can steward strong market participation.
with rapid global expansion of climate finance, compliance concerns have also grown because of "greenwash" – when companies over-inflate the environmental credentials of their projects.
the devil is in the details.
regulators must provide robust mechanisms for project verification, monitoring and compliance enforcement not only to prevent greenwash, but also to ensure fair benchmarking across all projects.
this could be industry initiated, where carbon credit and offset suppliers commit to co-develop and implement greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodologies for their respective sectors.
regulators will then be able to assess the methodologies that improve transparency in carbon credit transactions.
having recognised the complexity of scaling up global carbon markets, the global institute on finance's taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets has launched a consultation on creating "high-integrity" markets, due to end in late june.
it seeks to establish "a threshold standard for high-quality credits, clear legal standards and uniting existing, fragmented carbon credit markets in one impactful, well-run system".
to ensure the integrity and quality of its credits, cix will work with global partners including the taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets and the natural climate solutions alliance.
it will also use cutting-edge data analytics, such as satellite monitoring, machine learning and blockchain technology to ensure the environmental integrity of credits traded on cix.
global rating agencies might be roped in to provide independent environmental ratings for nature-based projects which will issue carbon credits.
it is important singapore provides a well-run and trusted market for carbon offsets while expanding emissions-reduction efforts.
however, to meet its own national targets, companies must ultimately commit to less carbon-intensive production models and not simply "pay to play" by exploiting offsets.
melissa low is research fellow at the energy studies institute, national university of singapore.
david broadstock is senior research fellow and lead energy economist at the same institute.
singapore: two eateries have been ordered to close, and two supermarkets fined for breaching covid-19 safe management measures, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment on friday (jun 11).
the closure orders will take effect when dining-in is allowed to resume, said the ministry.
the first eatery ordered to close is the starz bistro at 66 east coast road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 22, and consume alcohol after 10.
30pm.
the urban redevelopment authority (ura) has ordered the establishment to close for 10 days.
the second eatery is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant at 367/369 beach road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 28 at 9.
30pm.
as this is its third offence, ura has ordered the establishment to close for 30 days.
singaporeimplemented tighter measures from may 16 to jun 13, including barring dining-in at food and beverage outlets.
two supermarkets were fined s$1,000 each for not having staff members to oversee the safe entry checkpoints: giant supermarket, located at bedok shopping complex and the cold storage outlet at siglap v. mse also said that since phase 2 (heightened alert) was implemented,77 individuals have been finedfor breaching safe management measures at parks.
agencies will also step up enforcement at hotspots where safe management measures are more frequently breached, including parks and hdb common areas, the ministry said.
on thursday, the ministry of health (moh) said that dining in can resume on jun 21 if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, as part ofsingapore's plan to move to phase 3 (heightened alert).
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore live performances, wedding solemnisations, and congregational and other worship services will be capped at 250 people with pre-event testing from monday (june 14), up from 100 people under the current restrictions.
the cap remains at 50 people without pre-event testing, and those who are fully vaccinated will be exempt from pre-event testing, said the ministry of culture, community and youth in a statement on friday (june 11) .
here are the details:from june 14, congregational and other worship services will be capped at 250 persons with pre-event testing (pet), and up to 50 persons without pet.
individuals who are fully vaccinated meaning, two weeks after receiving the second dose of the pfizer or moderna vaccine are exempt from pet.
for services with more than 50 worshippers, they must be segregated into zones of no more than 50 each.
worshippers can participate in permitted religious activities in groups of no more than five people, up from the two previously.
from june 21, a maximum of 30 persons are allowed to be involved in or support the conduct of live performance elements during the worship service.
of these, up to 10 persons are allowed to unmask at any given time, with up to five persons unmasked for singing or playing of wind or brass instruments.
persons should unmask only when required to perform their duties.
singing by worshippers, even with masks on, is still not permitted during phase three (heightened alert).
from june 21, religious organisations may use places of worship to conduct religious rites and resume other religious activities (for example, pastoral services and religious classes for adults and children) so long as they are conducted in gatherings not exceeding 50 persons, subject to safe distancing and other safe management measures appropriate to the nature of the religious activity.
this is also subject to the total premises cap of 150 persons.
from june 14, the audience for live performances will be capped at 250 people with pet, and up to 50 persons without pet.
individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from pet.
all performers must continue to be properly masked at all times on stage.
from june 21, performers will be allowed to unmask on stage, including for singing and the playing of wind instruments.
a maximum of 30 performers and crew will be allowed on stage and backstage at any given time, with a maximum of 10 unmasked performers.
of the 10 unmasked performers, a maximum of five can be unmasked for singing and playing of instruments that require intentional expulsion of air.
from june 14, marriage solemnisations may take place in places of worship with up to 250 persons with pet, or up to 50 persons without pet, subject to safe capacity limits.
individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from pet.
the cap excludes the solemniser and religious and supporting workers, though the numbers of these workers involved should be kept to a minimum.
from june 21, in-person tuition and enrichment classes for participants aged 18 and below, and classes in singing and wind instruments, may resume.
unmasking will be allowed in classes for dance, singing, wind instruments, voice training, and speech and drama, subject to prevailing safe management measures.
from june 14, museums can operate at a reduced capacity of 50 per cent.
tours within museum premises may be conducted for a maximum group size of 20 persons (excluding guide), with up to five persons allowed in any one sub-group.
a 1m safe distance should be maintained between sub-groups.
from june 21, limits on performers and crew at recordings of digital productions and their associated rehearsals will be raised.
a maximum of 30 performers and crew are allowed on stage and backstage at any given time.
this includes a maximum of 10 performers who can be unmasked at any given time.
of the 10 unmasked performers, no more than five may sing or play wind instruments at any given time.
arts and cultural organisations will no longer need to notify the national arts council and the infocomm media development authority of their plans before proceeding with their digital productions and associated rehearsals if they adhere to these safe management measures.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two food and beverage establishments have been ordered to close after breaching safe management measures.
steamov steamboat buffet restaurant in beach road will be closed for 30 days and the starz bistro in east coast road for 10 days, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment (mse) on friday (june 11).
meanwhile, 77 people have been fined for breaching safe management measures (smms) in parks under tightened covid-19 rules that came into effect on may 16.  the curbs will gradually ease starting on june 14. two retail outlets giant supermarket at bedok shopping complex and cold storage supermarket at condominium siglap v near east coast road have been fined $1,000 each for not having staff to oversee their safe entry checkpoints.
with dining in slated to resume from june 21, government agencies will step up enforcement at f&b establishments and take firm action against any breaches of covid-19 rules, said the mse.
such breaches include the failure to maintain a 1m safe distance between groups and to prevent them from intermingling, allowing group sizes larger than five people, serving and allowing the consumption of alcohol after 10.
30pm, and providing live entertainment and games.
"enforcement actions will include fines, closures even for first offence, and the revoking of food shop, public entertainment or liquor licences," said the ministry.
it reminded patrons and operators of f&b establishments to strictly adhere to safe management measures as these places are high-risk settings where coronavirus transmission has taken place in recent weeks.
mse also said the national parks board will continue to temporarily close access to some parks and sections of beaches, lawns and facilities such as hardcourts, shelters and carparks when these areas get too crowded or where people remain non-compliant with safe management measures.
nparks has advised  compliance with safe management measures on more than 6,000 instances to parkgoers who were not wearing masks, and on more than 800 occasions to people who had gathered in groups of more than two, added the ministry.
these were verbally given by enforcement officers.
the latest breach is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant's third offence.
it had allowed customers to dine there at 9.
30pm on may 28. the starz bistro had done so on may 22, and also allowed customers to consume alcohol after 10.
30pm that day.
mse said the closure orders for both eateries will take effect when dining in is allowed to resume.
it said that agencies have identified places where safe management measures are more frequently breached and have stepped up enforcement presence there.
these hot spots includes parks and common areas of housing board estates such as hardcourts, basketball courts and pavilions.
"where repeated breaches of smms have been observed, agencies will close off facilities to ensure the safety of the community," added the ministry.
for example, a pavilion at block 90 pipit road was cordoned off on may 31 after a group of more than 12 people were found gathering there for dance sessions on multiple occasions.
"we therefore urge members of the public to use these facilities responsibly," said mse.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
bengaluru: an indian state has raised its covid-19 death toll sharply higher after the discovery of thousands of unreported cases, lending weight to suspicion that india's overall death tally is significantly more than the official figure.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
many of those deaths were not recorded in covid-19 tallies, doctors and health experts say.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, with 29.
2 million cases and 359,676 deaths, according to health ministry data.
but the discovery of several thousand unreported deaths in the state of bihar has raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the health department in bihar, one of india's poorest states, revised its total covid-19 related death toll to more than 9,429 from about 5,424 on wednesday.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
"these deaths occurred 15 days ago and were only uploaded now in the government portal.
action will be taken against some of the private hospitals," said the official, who declined to be identified as he is not authorised to speak to the media.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
"widespread problem"as crematoriums struggled to handle the wave of deaths over the past two months, many families placed bodies in the holy ganges river or buried them in shallow graves on its sandbanks.
those people would likely not have been registered as covid-19 victims.
"under-reporting is a widespread problem, not necessarily deliberate, often because of inadequacies," rajib dasgupta, head of the centre of social medicine and community health at new delhi's jawaharlal nehru university, told reuters.
"in the rural context, whatever states may say or claim, testing is not simple, easy or accessible," dasgupta said.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
the official total of cases stood at 29.
2 million on thursday after rising by 94,052 in the previous 24 hours, while total fatalities were at 359,676, according to data from the health ministry.
the new york times estimated deaths based on death counts over time and infection fatality rates and put india's toll at 600,000 to 1.
6 million.
the government dismissed those estimates as exaggerated.
but the main opposition congress party said that other states must follow bihar's example and conduct a review of deaths over the past two months.
"this proves beyond a doubt government has been hiding covid deaths, " said shama mohamed, a spokeswoman for congress, adding that an audit should also be ordered in the big states of uttar pradesh, madhya pradesh and gujarat.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
it is heartening to read that the government has accepted the tripartite committee's proposal to increase the wages of cleaners, with a view to narrowing the income disparity between cleaners and other workers (cleaners to see their wages increase over 6 years from 2023, june 8).
however, the timeline of the wage increase does not seem to be in sync with the speed with which covid-19 has exacted a toll on this group of workers.
as we have seen, there has been a huge increase in cleaning demand since the onset of covid-19, and many workers are deployed in high-risk areas like hospitals and the airport, where they are subject to a much higher risk of infection.
while cleaners are slated to get 3 per cent annual wage increases from last year to next year under previous updates to the progressive wage model, i wonder if the latest updates can be tweaked to bring forward the well-deserved wage adjustment.
otherwise, it is not obvious how the lives of these lower-wage workers are being uplifted if they have to wait for two years before they can see any significant sign of the fruit of their hard work.
karen yip lai khamjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore with some sectors facing an additional week of closure up till june 20, the current enhancements to the jobs support scheme (jss) will be extended for affected businesses such as food establishments that cannot yet resume dining in.
businesses that had to suspend many, if not all, of their operations because of the tightened measures during phase two (heightened alert) were given jss support of 50 per cent from may 16 to june 13.  this will be extended till june 20, the ministry of health said on thursday (june 10).
the sectors affected include food establishments, gyms and sport facilities, performing arts organisations and arts education centres.
they will get 10 per cent jss support from june 21 to june 30, the ministry added.
the scheme provides wage support to employers for the first $4,600 of gross monthly wages paid to each local employee.
in addition, the ministry of finance said that selected retail outlets, museums, art galleries and historical sites, affected personal care services, cinema operators, and family entertainment centres will continue to receive 30 per cent of jss support up till june 20.  this will be reduced to 10 per cent from june 21 to june 30.  the payouts will be disbursed in september.
the ministry of finance had announced on may 28 that the additional support measures, including wage subsidies and one-off payments for individuals and rental reliefs, will cost a total of $800 million.
singapore will reopen its economy in two phases from june 14, with food and beverage establishments, gyms and fitness studios to reopen from june 21, as they have been identified as higher risk.
"these are predominantly the activities where people are engaged in interactions without their masks on," said finance minister lawrence wong at a multi-ministry task force on covid-19 conference on thursday.
"if you look at it, it's f&b, it's gyms, fitness these are the higher-risk settings, and that's why we decided to wait for a full incubation cycle of low, stable numbers, and then we will be able to resume these activities on june 21.
"read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: from next monday, dream cruises' world dream will resume its cruise operations at 50 per cent passenger capacity.
this comes after theministry of health's (moh) announcementthat the operating capacity of attractions, including the two cruises world dream and royal caribbean's quantum of the seas that have received prior approval from authorities will be increased from the current limit of 25 per cent to 50 per cent from jun 14.
"world dream will resume operating at the permitted 50 per cent passenger capacity where guests from different households may now enjoy the option of travelling in a group size of up to five," said dream cruises in a media release on friday (jun 11).
it added that from jun 21, guests may also enjoy dining-in and live performances at the cruises.
singapore is currently inphase 2 (heightened alert), after tighter covid-19 restrictions took effect on may 16, ending on jun 13.  under these measures, attractions had to reduce their operating capacity to 25 per cent.
dream cruises' president mr michael goh said that despite the heightened alert measures, world dream has "enjoyed robust sales in june and we are seeing limited availability of cruises in july".
"with the diligence of our crew to provide the safest environment for our guests on board, world dream has extended its proven track record as worry-free vacation option for singaporeans," added mr goh.
dream cruises and royal caribbean started offering cruises to nowhere in november and december last year respectively as part of apilot schemethat allows round-trips with no ports of call.
in december, aroyal caribbean's quantum of the seas cruise was cut shortwhen it turned back ahead of schedule after a passenger tested positive for covid-19.
the 83-year-old passenger later tested negative on two covid-19 tests after returning to singapore.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new covid-19 infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said on friday (june 11) that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said in a statement.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel, social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources being overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded so far.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases on friday, the highest this week, bringing the all-time total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deem that the restrictions were successful in reducing the number of infections.
the health ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing, similar to may's mco, where most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols are allowed while social activities remain banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 jabbed on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up the pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin on friday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the two-passenger limit for taxi and private hire cars will be lifted from monday (june 14), in line with singapore's updated restrictions on permissible group sizes, said the land transport authority (lta) on friday.
commercial carpooling services can also resume, added lta in its statement.
all drivers and passengers must still wear masks at all times, said lta.
"taxi and phc (private-hire car) drivers should decline to ferry passengers who do not wear masks.
"paid carpooling services that are matched through licensed ride-hail platforms, such as grabhitch and rydepool, may resume from monday.
however, paid carpooling trips which are arranged through informal platforms such as telegram groups remain illegal.
carpooling trips which do not involve payment, such as those between families, friends or colleagues, are permitted, subject to the prevailing permissible group size of five people, said lta.
the announcement comes a day after the multi-ministry task force on covid-19 said that restrictions on social gatherings will be relaxed in a two-step process from monday.
among other things, people will once again be allowed to gather in groups of up to five, although dining at eateries will be allowed only from june 21. the changes are a result of the falling number of new covid-19 cases reported daily since tightened measures were put in place on may 16. commercial carpooling services had stopped during the period of heightened alert from may 16 to june 13.  taxis and private-hire cars were also not allowed to take more than two passengers during this period unless they are members of the same household.
lta said on friday that taxi drivers, private hire car drivers and passengers are strongly encouraged to bring their tracetogether token or keep their tracetogether app on in their smartphone to facilitate contact tracing efforts.
"early detection of close contacts with confirmed covid-19 cases will help to protect drivers, passengers and their loved ones, and prevent further spread in the community," lta added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore assistant secretary-general of the national trades union congress (ntuc) melvin yong has been elected unopposed as the new president of the consumers association of singapore (case).
he takes over the reins from mr lim biow chuan, who had helmed the organisation for the past nine years.
mr yong, who is also mp for radin mas and the executive secretary of the national transport workers' union, will head the consumer watchdog for the term 2021 to 2024, case said in a media release on friday (june 11).
the new central committee was also elected and appointed to office, following its 48th annual general meeting on friday, case added.
thanking mr lim for his contributions, mr yong, 49, said: "as case commemorates its 50th anniversary this year, it is timely that we take stock of our achievements and consider how we can continue to be relevant and respond to the needs of consumers.
"i will work closely with the new central committee, management and staff to look into how we can better protect and empower consumers in this new digital age.
"mr lim, 58, who is mp for mountbatten, has served as case president since 2012, and was a vice-president from 2006 to 2012. some of his notable contributions included advocating for the enactment of provisions under the law to protect consumer rights.
for example, after receiving complaints against timeshare companies for pressure sales tactics, he advocated for legislation to better protect consumers against errant timeshare companies.
mr yong, who was elected vice-president in november 2019, had overseen the conceptualisation and development of two key projects, price kaki and fuel kaki, which allow consumers to compare prices of groceries and fuel.
the price kaki application has seen more than 72,000 downloads since it was launched in september 2019, while the fuel kaki website has seen an average of more than 25,000 visitors every month since it was launched in january this year.
mr lim told the straits times that he is still involved in other committees because of his position as a former president.
they include the multilateral healthcare insurance committee and the data protection advisory committee.
he said that he will continue to help out while mr yong adjusts to the new role.
"it is time for a leadership change, and it is always good for the key leader to be refreshed after a number of years.
it is good to look at things with fresh eyes and a new perspective.
sometimes, you can't see your own weaknesses," mr lim added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new coronavirus infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said yesterday that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said.
he did not say which period of time the average daily figure of 6,871 was based on.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel and social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire after next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded in total.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases yesterday, the highest this week, bringing the total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deemed that the curbs were successful in reducing infection numbers.
the ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow, with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed to reopen.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing to something similar to last month's mco, in which most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols were allowed, while social activities remained banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 receiving jabs on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
malaysia yesterday started to deploy four mobile vaccine trucks to inoculate some 7,200 residents of public housing projects in kuala lumpur, as the country races to speed up its vaccination drive.
the three-day programme, which will run until tomorrow, involves four areas in the kuala lumpur federal territory.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore staff who work in higher-risk settings with unmasked customers will have to undergo regular covid-19 testing, with the government covering the cost of these tests for the next three months.
these include workers at dine-in food and beverage (f&b) establishments, saunas and gyms and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.
mandatory fast and easy testing (fet) will start from july for those working at dine-in f&b establishments, as dining in with a maximum group size of five will be allowed to resume from june 21. this expanded testing regime was announced on thursday (june 10) by the multi-ministry task force tackling covid-19, alongside the relaxation of measures in two stages.
fet uses tests such as antigen rapid tests, which can produce results in about 30 minutes and can be done on-site.
all workers will have to undergo testing, regardless of their vaccination status.
the ministry of health said fet capacity will be ramped up aggressively in the coming months, with mandatory testing progressively rolled out to larger establishments first and extended to smaller businesses later on.
finance minister lawrence wong, who co-chairs the multi-ministry task force on covid-19, said that the government is working out the details of this new testing regime, such as the frequency of testing and whether it can be self-administered, and more information will be announced later on.
the regime is part of measures which singapore is taking to minimise virus transmission and the risk of large clusters breaking out, as it reopens in a "cautious and controlled" manner, he said.
the government will cover the cost of testing over the next three months, mr wong noted, adding: "we are doing that during this period because it is important to get everyone tested regularly and put this in place.
"beyond that, employers will have to start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their bcps (business continuity planning).
"measures which f&b operators have to take in line with safe distancing rules include ensuring that their restaurants have "good ventilation" and groups of diners are seated at least 1m apart.
rostered routine testing is already being done in a number of higher-risk settings in singapore, including migrant worker dormitories, construction worksites, shipyards, air and sea ports, hospitals and nursing homes.
individuals, whether vaccinated or not, are tested once every seven days or once every 14 days, depending on their risk level.
read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
