Watchdog says 'pervasive' digital sex crime affecting life for South Korean women, girls, East Asia News & Top Stories.
seoul — south korea is facing a growing epidemic of online and tech-enabled "digital sex crimes" that is inflicting grave damage on women and girls, but the government has not done enough to stamp out the menace, human rights watch said in a report released wednesday.
south korea, a global leader in information and communication technology, is struggling to cope with a rise in crimes involving intimate images — almost always of women — that are captured and shared digitally without consent or manipulated to impersonate the victim in a sexually degrading manner.
"the root cause of digital sex crimes in south korea is widely accepted harmful views about and conduct toward women and girls that the government urgently needs to address," said heather barr, interim co-director for women's rights at human rights watch.
"the government has tinkered with the law but has not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal, and misogyny is unacceptable.
"the title of the 92-page report, "my life is not your porn," was the slogan used in rallies in south korea in 2018.  tens of thousands of women marched on the streets of seoul to protest voyeuristic pornography produced by illegal filming and criticize the government's inaction to stamp out the criminal practice.
according to south korean police data, the five-year average caseload of illegal-filming-related sex crimes reached 6,192 between 2015 and 2019, an 86 percent increase from the previous five years' average of 3,330. since the mass protest in 2018, the south korean government has changed the law and come up with prevention measures against digital sex crimes and a support system for the victims.
however, women and girls who have been targeted still face hurdles in accessing justice, according to testimonies cited in the report.
drawing from interviews with 12 survivors of digital sex crimes in addition to officials and experts, the report pointed to lack of awareness, victim shaming and insensitive investigation methods as barriers to seeking justice.
the fact that online images are easily copied adds to the uniquely persistent impact of digital sex crime, which leaves a lasting impact on the victims' lives.
"one of the most difficult things during the cybercrime was that i had to delete the numerous posts," one of the survivors, using the pseudonym of kang yu-jin, was quoted as saying in the report.
"it was a very painful and difficult job.
"kang said she was left on her own to rid the internet of sexually degrading images impersonating her, even after her ex-boyfriend was given a suspended sentence for posting them.
she spent several months deleting manipulated images, including ones that merged her face with nude photos of other women.
"it's like a murder, even though he didn't use a knife or a weapon.
it's like a murder to someone's identity or mentality," she told the rights group.
another interviewee in the report said she had been filmed unknowingly by a miniature camera hidden in a clock.
her employer, who gifted her the clock, admitted that he was looking at her in her bedroom through the camera for a month.
even after the perpetrator was sentenced to 10 months' imprisonment, she said she had to take medicine for depression and anxiety because of the traumatizing experience.
"what happened took place in my own room — so sometimes, in regular life, in my own room, i feel terrified without reason," she was quoted as saying in the report.
the release of the report comes amid fresh scandals involving secret filming in south korea.
earlier this month, the center for military human rights korea said an air force sergeant was caught breaking into women's dormitories and illegally filming female soldiers, but he was allowed to continue working with apparent impunity.
the air force authorities said later that the service has been conducting an investigation.
late last month, seoul's education superintendent, joe hee-yeon, issued a public apology after a high school teacher was caught installing spy cameras at the women's toilet in a school.
experts say a tougher and more detailed set of regulations is necessary to prevent the misuse of technology in digital sex crimes, but more fundamental is the need to address the underlying culture of misogyny at the core of the abuse.
the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
human rights watch found sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017last modified on wed 16 jun 2021 01.
39 edtsouth korea's epidemic of online sexual abuse has left survivors traumatised for life, and is adversely affecting all women and girls in the country, according to a new report.
molka – the use of hidden cameras to film or share explicit images of women without their consent – is forcing victims to contemplate suicide or to consider quitting their jobs or leaving the country, human rights watch (hrw) said in the report, my life is not your porn: digital sex crimes in south korea.
the trauma is worsened by encounters with unsympathetic police and courts, the us-based organisation said, and called on the government to introduce harsher penalties and educate men and boys about the dangers of consuming abusive images online.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared, in south korea that they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," heather barr, hrw's interim director of women' rights, said on wednesday.
barr, who authored the report, added: "women and girls told us they avoided using public toilets and felt anxious about hidden cameras in public and even in their homes.
an alarming number of survivors of digital sex crimes said they had considered suicide.
"officials in the legal justice system – most of whom are men – often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes.
"the report, based on 38 interviews and an online survey involving hundreds of women, said sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017, according to data from the korean institute of criminology.
in 2008, fewer than 4% of prosecutions involved molka, but that had risen to 20% – almost 7,000 cases – by 2017.
"digital sex crimes are an urgent crisis for south korean women and girl," said lina yoon, a senior researcher in hrw's asia division.
the crime is having a "devastating impact" on women, yoon added.
"police take the issue lightly because there is no physical contact involved.
they don't realise how terrifying it can be. "
the sharing of covert photos and video online means the crime "never ends for the survivors," she said.
"it stays with them throughout their lives.
"oh soo-jin* was a 20-year-old student when she agreed to pose nude for a part-time modelling job.
despite reassurances in her contract that the photographs would remain private, more than 700 images of her appeared on a website after she quit because her boss had demanded more sexually explicit images.
more photographs of oh appeared – even after she sought help from the police – leading her to contemplate suicide.
"i'm quite afraid for my future," she said.
"[the images] are going to always be on someone's computer, and i don't know when this will stop.
i thought that if this can't stop, then i want to stop my life.
"barr said most women who reported digital sex crimes had "terrible experiences" with the police, with some saying they had been mocked or told they would never find a marriage partner.
while upskirting and other non-consensual sexual imagery is now a global problem, it has taken hold quickly in south korea, where perpetrators take advantage of the near-ubiquitous use of mobile devices and the world's fastest internet speeds.
the president, moon jae-in, called for police to investigate the growing number of digital sex crimes after mass demonstrations in seoul gained global attention in 2018. in 2020, however, perpetrators receive a fine or a suspended sentence, or both, in 79% of cases.
"it is not at all proportionate to the harm that has been done," barr said.
a year earlier, prosecutors dropped 43.
5% of digital sex crime cases compared to 27.
7% of homicide cases and 19% of robbery cases, although the sex crime cases that were prosecuted usually ended in a conviction, the report said.
hrw said the government needed to introduce tougher penalties for offenders, increase the number of female police officers, prosecutors, and judges, and address south korea's poor record on gender inequality.
* name has been changed international helplines can be found at www.
befrienders.
org.
in the uk and ireland, samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.
org or jo@samaritans.
ie.
in the us, the national suicide prevention lifeline is at 800-273-8255 and online chat is also available.
you can also text home to 741741 to connect with a crisis text line counselor.
in australia, the crisis support service lifeline is 13 11 14.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
seoul (reuters) digital sex crime is now so pervasive in south korea that the fear of it is affecting the quality of life for women and girls, with many victims saying they had considered suicide or leaving the country, a human rights watchdog said on wednesday (june 16).
south korea has become the global epicentre of spycam the use of tiny, hidden cameras to film victims naked, urinating or having sex.
other cases have involved intimate photos being leaked without permission, or sex abuse such as rapes captured on camera and the videos shared online.
victims are often traumatised further and become "immersed in the abuse" by encounters with police and other justice officials, and by the expectation that they should gather evidence and monitor the internet for new appearances of images of themselves, us-based human rights watch (hrw) said in a report.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared, in south korea that they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," heather barr, the report's author, said in a statement.
"women and girls told us they avoided using public toilets and felt anxious about hidden cameras in public and even in their homes.
an alarming number of survivors of digital sex crimes said they had considered suicide.
"the report, based on 38 interviews and an online survey, said sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017, according to data from the korean institute of criminology.
south korean president moon jae-in has called for police to investigate the growing number of sexual abuse claims, including recently among members of the military.
last year, police broke up an online network that lured dozens of women and underage girls into what authorities have called "virtual enslavement" by blackmailing them into sending increasingly degrading and sometimes violent sexual imagery of themselves.
hrw said the government needs to do more by increasing legal penalties for convicted offenders, boosting the number of women among the police, prosecutors, and judges, and changing broader gender inequality that normalises the consumption of non-consensual images.
in 2019, prosecutors dropped 43.
5 per cent of digital sex crime cases compared to 27.
7 per cent of homicide cases and 19 per cent of robbery cases, though the sex crime cases that were prosecuted usually ended in a conviction, the report said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a hidden-camera search squad, consisting of student and citizen volunteers, scan a restroom near a public pool in changwon, south korea on 25 jul 2018 (source: getty images)south korean authorities are failing to properly tackle the country's widespread digital sex crimes against women, which have a devastating impact on victims, a human rights watch (hrw) report said wednesday.
south korea is the world's 12th largest economy and a leading technological power, but remains a male-dominated society with a poor record on women's rights.
digital sex crimes, or the sharing of intimate pictures or video without permission, are a massive problem in the country, where "molka" or spycam videos secretly filmed in public places are common, as is "revenge porn" — private sex videos filmed or shared non-consensually by disgruntled exes.
south korean officials "in the criminal legal system –- most of whom are men –- often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes," said hrw's heather barr, the report author.
in 2019, almost 45 percent of sexual digital crime cases were dropped by the country's prosecution, compared with 19 percent of robbery cases and 27.
7 percent of homicides, the report said.
even when there were convictions, it found almost 80 percent of perpetrators received just "a suspended sentence, a fine, or a combination of the two" last year.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared.
.
.
they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," barr said.
spycams have become so prevalent that female police officers now regularly inspect public toilets, with women telling hrw they avoided using the amenities altogether.
one woman who spoke to barr was given a clock by a male employer, which she put in her bedroom — only later finding out the device had been streaming footage to him for over a month.
victims often feel deep shame and are socially ostracised, and an "alarming number" told hrw they had contemplated suicide.
the report comes as an anti-feminist backlash grows in south korea, with companies accused of endorsing "radical feminism" being boycotted by some men.
barr said "widely accepted harmful views" about women and girls were the root cause of the phenomenon.
the government has "not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal," she said.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
seoul: south korean authorities are failing to properly tackle the country's widespread digital sex crimes against women, which have a devastating impact on victims, a human rights watch (hrw) report said on wednesday (jun 16).
south korea is the world's 12th largest economy and a leading technological power, but remains a male-dominated society with a poor record on women's rights.
digital sex crimes, or the sharing of intimate pictures or video without permission, are a massive problem in the country, where "molka" or spycam videos secretly filmed in public places are common, as is "revenge porn" private sex videos filmed or shared non-consensually by disgruntled exes.
south korean officials "in the criminal legal system most of whom are men often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes", said hrw's heather barr, the report author.
in 2019, almost 45 per cent of sexual digital crime cases were dropped by the country's prosecution, compared with 19 per cent of robbery cases and 27.
7 per cent of homicides, the report said.
even when there were convictions, it found almost 80 per cent of perpetrators received just "a suspended sentence, a fine, or a combination of the two" last year.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared .
.
.
they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," barr said.
spycams have become so prevalent that female police officers now regularly inspect public toilets, with women telling hrw they avoided using the amenities altogether.
one woman who spoke to barr was given a clock by a male employer, which she put in her bedroom only later finding out the device had been streaming footage to him for over a month.
victims often feel deep shame and are socially ostracised, and an "alarming number" told hrw they had contemplated suicide.
the report comes as an anti-feminist backlash grows in south korea, with companies accused of endorsing "radical feminism" being boycotted by some men.
barr said "widely accepted harmful views" about women and girls were the root cause of the phenomenon.
the government has "not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
