Euro 2020: Netherlands 3-2 Ukraine full match reaction & quotes: Defiant De Boer vows second-half struggles 'will not happen again'.
published :
													17 jun 2021 at 18:45												writer: 
															afp paris denmark host the world's top-ranked side belgium at euro 2020 on thursday with the trauma of christian eriksen's collapse still raw, while the netherlands can move into the last 16 on their return to a major tournament.
five days after eriksen required emergency medical treatment to revive him at copenhagen's parken stadium, denmark play group b leaders belgium looking to move on from a harrowing 1-0 defeat by finland.
"it will be very emotional to return to the parken, we expect to have incredible support from our fans and from the whole country," said denmark coach kasper hjulmand.
"we have to be ready for that and use this energy in a positive way.
"denmark fans will stage a minute's applause in the 10th minute in support of eriksen.
"what's crazy is that the hospital where christian is staying is not far from the stadium.
he can see the stadium and he might even be able to hear everything that is happening there," added hjulmand.
the 29-year-old eriksen is to be fitted with a defibrillator after suffering a cardiac arrest during his team's opening game.
"after christian has been through different heart examinations it has been decided that he should have an icd (heart starter)," the danish football federation announced ahead of thursday's 1600gmt kick-off.
belgium striker romelu lukaku, who scored twice in their 3-0 win over russia and shouted a message of support to eriksen into a pitchside camera, said the players would kick the ball out of play for the minute's applause.
"several of our players have played with him.
but tomorrow we'll be there to win the game, which promises to be difficult," said lukaku, eriksen's team-mate at inter milan.
belgium, who will advance to the knockout phase if they win, have kevin de bruyne back from the facial fractures he sustained in last month's champions league final.
"the programme is very clear for kevin de bruyne.
he is medically fit, he's got the green light to play in a match situation," said coach roberto martinez.
dutch aim to double up -frank de boer's netherlands marked their return to the big stage after a seven-year absence with a 3-2 win over ukraine in amsterdam last weekend.
it was their first win at a european championship since 2008 and another victory against austria at the johan cruyff arena in group c will ensure a place in the next round.
juventus defender matthijs de ligt will reclaim his place in the side after sitting out the opener with a groin problem.
austria on the other hand will be without marko arnautovic, who has been given a one-game ban by uefa for insulting a north macedonian player in their 3-1 win in bucharest.
that was austria's first ever win at the euro and now they too know a victory will take them through to the last 16. ukraine and finals debutants north macedonia face off in the group's other game at 1300gmt with both countries aiming to pick up their first point.
italy breeze through -absent from the 2018 world cup, italy on wednesday became the first team to qualify for the last 16 as they eased aside switzerland to register a second successive 3-0 win in rome.
manuel locatelli scored twice and ciro immobile added a late third as roberto mancini's men stretched their unbeaten run to 29 matches.
"we played well, we wanted to win at all costs.
they started well, it was not easy to win a second game in five days," said mancini.
the azzurri will play the runners-up from group c if they avoid defeat against surprise euro 2016 semi-finalists wales at the stadio olimpico on sunday.
gareth bale set up goals for aaron ramsey and connor roberts but also missed a penalty as wales beat turkey 2-0 in baku, where the majority of the crowd roared on the opposition.
russia reignited their group b campaign courtesy of a 1-0 win over finland.
atalanta midfielder aleksei miranchuk produced a glorious finish in first-half stoppage time for the only goal of the game between the neighbours.
phnom penh: the united states is ending a cambodian aid programme aimed at protecting one its biggest wildlife sanctuaries, citing worsening deforestation and harassment of those who speak out about destruction of natural resources.
the supreme court has reduced to three years and four months the 10-year jail sentence given to a 56-year-old man who shot dead a teenager during a rowdy confrontation over double-parking in chon buri four years ago, and suspended the prison term.
a goalkeeper for the myanmar soccer team who raised a three-finger salute in protest at the military coup in the country during a world cup qualifying match in japan said thursday he has chosen not to return home and will apply for refugee status.
sergio ramos is leaving real madrid after 16 years with los blancos, the club have confirmed.
the club have announced a press conference will be held on thursday to bid farewell to the veteran defender.
the centre-back's contract expires at the end of june, and although there had been reports the club were willing to give him an extension if he accepted a pay cut, he has now decided to depart.
the 35-year-old has decided to leave santiago bernabeu after a remarkable and trophy-laden spell at the club.
a statement from the club read: "real madrid announces that tomorrow, thursday 17 june, at 12:30 pm, an act of tribute and farewell to our captain sergio ramos will be held, which will be attended by our president florentino perez.
"sergio ramos will then appear before the media in a virtual press conference.
"the spain international made 21 appearances in all competitions for madrid in the 2020-21 season as his side finished second in la liga and reached the champions league semi-finals.
the madrid captain was kept out of action for large spells of the campaign due to injuries.
he scored two goals in la liga and another two in the champions league.
ramos joined the capital club from sevilla in 2005.  he has played over 670 games for the club and won five liga titles and the champions league four times.
it is not yet known where ramos will move to.
manchester united and paris saint-germain have both been linked, but he could still stay in la liga as his former team, sevilla, are also said to have offered him a five-year deal.
copenhagen: belgium's goal ace romelu lukaku wants to use the opportunity of being in denmark to visit club mate christian eriksen but warned there will be no sympathy when the countries meet at euro 2020. lukaku and eriksen were part of inter milan's serie a-winning season but would have been on opposite ends in the group b clash on thursday before eriksen suffered a heart attack playing for denmark on saturday.
"i have already sent him a message and he has let us know that he is ok.  i have already asked the coach if i could visit him in the hospital, we will see if that is possible," lukaku told a news conference on wednesday.
but the belgian emphasised there would be no sympathy on the pitch for denmark, who have been rattled by the incident during their opening game against finland which they then lost.
"we're here to win, that's our main job.
my head is now on the match, we have to continue.
"belgian players have prepared a tribute to eriksen before the match, details of which lukaku did not reveal, and will participate in a round of applause for the danish playmaker during the match at copenhagen's parken stadium"in the 10th minute we will kick the ball outside and applaud.
that is our support.
that is the most normal thing in the world because we have several players in our squad who know him personally.
"but tomorrow we will also be here to win, that remains the most important task.
there is no room for pity at this level.
"denmark is a really good team and they now have an extra motivation.
we certainly do not underestimate them.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
 share copiedmanuel locatelli of italy celebrates during the euro 2020 group a match against switzerland in rome, italy, june 16, 2021.
/cfpmanuel locatelli bagged a brace of goals for the first time in his career as imperious italy defeated switzerland 3-0 at the stadio olimpico on wednesday to become the first side into the last-16 of euro 2020. midfielder locatelli started and finished the move from which he opened the scoring, netting from close range following sassuolo team mate domenico berardi's excellent run down the right wing.
he then rifled a shot into the bottom corner of the net from the edge of the box early in the second half.
ciro immobile added a late third to secure back-to-back 3-0 wins for italy in the tournament, which extends their unbeaten run to 29 games, the last 10 of which have been victories where they have scored 31 goals and conceded none.
italy lead group a with six points after two rounds of matches and are ahead of wales (four), switzerland (one) and turkey (zero).
they can seal top spot with a draw in their final group game against wales on sunday when the swiss face turkey.
the italians outclassed their opponents and delighted the home crowd who have now seen their side score three times in a european championship match for the second game in a row having never done so previously.
italy skipper giorgio chiellini, making his 14th european championship appearance, more than any other outfield player for italy, thought he had scored when he powered past two defenders to fire in from close range only for his effort to be ruled out for handball.
the italians were not to be denied, however, even after chiellini went off injured, with locatelli launching a move with a brilliant pass and then finishing it off after berardi had cut in from the right in the 26th minute.
the swiss pressed high after the break in search of an equalizer but it was italy who scored again with locatelli rifling in from the edge of the box for his second goal of the evening.
italy keeper gianluigi donnarumma stopped a double effort from steven zuber in the 64th minute to protect their flawless record over the last 10 games, before immobile twice fired narrowly wide.
the italy striker did get onto the scoresheet in the 89th, however, thumping in his shot from 20 meters to beat keeper yann sommer.
switzerland have now won none of their last nine matches against italy and last beat their neighbors 28 years ago.
wales players celebrate after winning the euro 2020 group a match against turkey in baku, azerbaijan, june 16, 2021.
/cfpelsewhere on wednesday, wales captain gareth bale inspired a scintillating 2-0 victory for his side over turkey, giving the dragons a big leap towards the european championship knockout stages and reviving memories of their 2016 run to the semi-finals.
midfielder aaron ramsey missed two early chances, but made no mistake just before halftime when he chested down bale's perfect ball over the defence to slot past the goalkeeper.
wales could have doubled the lead at the hour mark when bale was tripped by zeki celik and awarded a penalty, but the welsh skipper skied his effort after a stuttering run up.
wales were rewarded for their superiority throughout when they scored right at the death as a corner was played short and defender connor roberts was on hand to divert another bale pass past goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
russia defeated finland 1-0 with a first-hald goal from aleksei miranchuk, as they bounced back from losing their opening game 3-0 to belgium.
copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
16 june 2021
will mancini's men be able to build on impressive start?having made a strong statement of intent in their opening match, italy can book their place in the round of 16 with a win in rome today.
read on for your guide to watching a italy vs switzerland live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
date: wednesday, june 16kick-off time: 9pm cet / 8pm bst / 3pm et / 12pm pt / 5am aest / 7am nzstvenue: stadio olimpico, rome, italyfree live stream: itv1 (see below for more)global live streams: espn via sling tv or fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freeroberto mancini's men brushed cooly past turkey in the tournament opener last friday with a 3-0 win thanks to goals from ciro immobile, lorenzo insigne and an own goal from turkish defender merih demiral.
they now face a swiss side that will feel somewhat disappointed not to have matched the italian's result, after being pegged back by wales 1-1 in their first group a game.
breel imbolo was on target for vladimir petković's side early in the second half, only to see kieffer moore's glancing header in the 74th minute rescue a point for the welsh.
paris saint-germain midfielder marco veratti remains a doubt for the azzurri, while fellow psg star alessandro florenzi is also struggling to be fit after picking up a calf injury.
the swiss squad appears to have managed to come through their welsh test unscathed, and will be determined to grab a win that would blow group a wide open.
read on for how to watch an italy vs switzerland live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with today's opening match between italy and switzerland being shown live on itv.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, this euro 2020 group a clash between italy and switzerland is being shown on itv1.
coverage starts at 7.
15pm bst, with kick-off set to follow at 8pm bst.
you can also live stream italy vs switzerland for free via itv hub, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, itv hub doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this game.
kick-off stateside is at 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream italy vs switzerland directly through the espn website.
how to watch italy vs switzerland without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 5am aest on thursday morning.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
italy vs switzerland will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a italy vs switzerland live stream, with kick-off set for 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with italy vs switzerland set to start at 7am nzst on thursday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
gareth bale missed a penalty in the second half, but a 42nd-minute strike from aaron ramsey and an injury-time goal by connor roberts helped wales beat turkey 2-0 in a euro 2020 group a match in baku this morning (singapore time).
the victory in azerbaijan's capital put the welsh side in a good position to reach the knockout stages.
they had drawn 1-1 with switzerland last week.
in last night's group b game, a goal in first-half injury time by aleksei miranchuk got russia's euro 2020 campaign back on track as they beat finland 1-0. joel pohjanpalo thought he had given the finns the lead in the fifth minute, but his powerful header was ruled out for offside after a var (video assistant referee) review.
with both sides committing men forward, miranchuk popped up just before the break to curl in a superb left-footed effort.
the result moves russia up to second in group b on three points, ahead of finland thanks to the head-to-head result.
belgium, who beat russia 3-0 last week, meet denmark tonight.
reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
madrid: sergio ramos broke down in tears, saying leaving real madrid was one of the most difficult moments of his life as he bid farewell on thursday (jun 17) after 16 years at the club.
the defender played 671 games for real madrid and will be remembered as one of the club's greatest ever players, having won five la liga titles and four champions leagues.
the 35-year-old, who struggled for fitness and form last season, was unable to agree an extension to his contract and will become a free agent on jul 1. ramos and real madrid president florentino perez delivered short speeches in a presentation room at the club's training ground, with ramos' family in the audience.
"the moment has come, one of the most difficult in my life, because you are never ready to leave real madrid," ramos said.
"the fans supported me in the good moments and the bad.
i would have liked to say goodbye in the stadium.
"a wonderful stage is closing, one that has been unique in my life, but an exciting new chapter begins and i go into it with a lot of desire to show my quality for many years to come.
"ramos said he wants to "add more titles" to his record and added "this is not a goodbye but a see you later because sooner or later i will return to real madrid".
perez said it was "not an easy day", remembering how he signed ramos, aged 19, from sevilla for 27 million euros in 2005.
"he arrived wanting to take on the world," said perez.
"you are undoubtedly one of legends of real madrid.
you have grown as a player here and been our iconic captain for years.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
baku: gareth bale skied a penalty over the bar, and extended his international goal drought to 13 games, but in every other respect his contribution towales' 2-0 group a defeat of turkeyat euro 2020 on wednesday (jun 16) was immense.
the goals may not be flowing but the captain was the provider who set up aaron ramsey and connor roberts with the sort of precision passing and persistence that made all the difference.
it would be easy to characterise wales as a team who rely heavily on the real madrid winger, however much of a shift they all put in, but bale's link up play with ramsey and his vision stood out.
"it's unfortunate, but what he did show was character after it," wales manager rob page said of the shocking penalty miss in baku.
"everybody's going to make mistakes, everybody's going to miss chances.
ok, he missed a penalty.
so what?
"he got on with it.
he's got man of the match tonight.
he plays a massive part as a captain and he's a big, big part of what we want to do.
"when juventus midfielder ramsey scored the 42nd minute opener it was the third great chance he had been fed through by bale.
roberts' extra time icing on the cake came after bale dribbled along the byline and then slipped the ball through at an angle.
barely 10 minutes into the match he had cleared away a corner in the welsh area and then secured one at the other end on the counter-attack.
his shots on goal, like the penalty that he won, came to nothing.
turkey had 56 per cent of the ball, more attempts on goal and completed way more passes but were vulnerable in defence and, despite welsh nerves, offered little real threat on the attack.
they had the crowd in baku but have yet to score a point.
possession has never been a secret of wales' success, their players lifted by a strong and indefatigable sense of team spirit.
in ramsey and bale, the euro 2016 semi-finalists have two players who can stand with the best but wales are much more than that as a unit and their fans will be dreaming of another mazy run in the knockout stages.
"we're not little wales, we're not viewed like that any more," said former wales striker and manager mark hughes, in the bbc studio as a pundit, after a game that left them with four points from two games.
italy, who beat turkey 3-0, are still to come in the final game of the group but wednesday's performance will give wales plenty of belief that they can take something away from it.
"i thought that first half today was superb," said ramsey.
"to a man we created so many opportunities and we really dominated the play.
"second half we showed great character, we dug in and i thought we thoroughly deserved the win at the end.
.
.
what we've built our success on over the last few years is really working hard for each other and we showed it again tonight.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

chris shaw

@__chrisshaw


                                    xherdan shaqiri, harry wilson and neco williams were involved in euro 2020 matches on wednesday as group a continued.
wilson was an 85th-minute substitute and williams entered the action deep into stoppage time for wales against turkey in baku.
goals from aaron ramsey and connor roberts secured a 2-0 win for wales, who are now second in the section with four points from their two fixtures so far.
on-loan ozan kabak remained on the bench for a turkey side at the foot of the table after back-to-back defeats at the tournament.
shaqiri, meanwhile, started for switzerland in their 3-0 defeat by italy at the stadio olimpico.
the liverpool attacker played 75 minutes of the tie, which saw manuel locatelli (two) and ciro immobile net for the hosts.
group a concludes on sunday afternoon as wales tackle italy and switzerland meet turkey.
gareth bale made european championship history with his performance for wales on wednesday.
the winger was integral to his side's 2-0 win against turkey as he registered two assists in the euro 2020 clash to compensate for the penalty he missed.
bale first set up aaron ramsey for the opening goal late in the first half and then gave connor roberts an easy finish in the dying seconds of the match.
wales could have won by an even bigger margin thanks to the threat bale posed.
the 31-year-old made five clear-cut chances during the match in baku.
gareth bale created five clear-cut chances for wales in their euro 2020 win over turkey this evening the first player in recorded euro history (since 1980) to create this many in a match.
this was a top performance from wales, so we look at the stats.
#wal #tur #euro2020 ⬇️he is the first player to create so many big chances in a single match at a european championship since 1980, according to opta.
wales are almost guaranteed a place in the next round of the competition after getting their first victory.
they are now on four points from two matches, having drawn 1-1 with switzerland earlier in the week.
wales will round off the group stage with a match against italy on sunday.
the winners of their group will face the team that finishes second in group c consisting of austria, netherlands, north macedonia and ukraine.
the runners-up of group a will take on the team that finishes second in group b, which has belgium, denmark, finland and russia.
manuel locatelli bagged a brace of goals for the first time in his career as imperious italy defeated switzerland 3-0 at the stadio olimpico on thursday morning (june 17, singapore time) to become the first side to reach the last 16 of euro 2020. midfielder locatelli started and finished the move from which he opened the scoring, netting from close range following sassuolo teammate domenico berardi's excellent run down the right wing.
he then rifled a shot into the bottom corner of the net from the edge of the box early in the second half.
ciro immobile added a late third to secure back-to-back 3-0 wins for italy in the tournament, which extends their unbeaten run to 29 games, the last 10 of which have been victories where they have scored 31 goals and conceded none.
italy, who beat turkey in their opener, lead group a with six points after two rounds of matches and are ahead of wales (four), switzerland (one) and turkey (zero).
they can seal top spot with a draw in their final group game against wales on sunday when the swiss face turkey.
"we won the game thinking we wanted to win it at all costs," italy coach roberto mancini said.
"it was a very tough match.
we could have scored a second goal a bit earlier.
we suffered when we had to suffer but in the end it's a well-deserved victory.
""it was the second game in five days and the boys have worked a lot.
we could have sealed it earlier but we stayed patient.
"the italians outclassed their opponents and delighted the home crowd who have now seen their side score three times in a european championship match for the second game in a row having never done so previously.
italy skipper giorgio chiellini, making his 14th european championship appearance, more than any other outfield player for italy, thought he had scored when he powered past two defenders to fire in from close range only for his effort to be ruled out for handball.
the italians were not to be denied, however, even after chiellini went off injured, with locatelli launching a move with a brilliant pass and then finishing it off after berardi had cut in from the right in the 26th minute.
the swiss pressed high after the break in search of an equaliser but it was italy who scored again with locatelli rifling in from the edge of the box for his second goal of the evening.
"two goals for a midfielder are not easy at all and not a given," mancini said.
"manuel played a great match.
his action in the first goal was great.
"italy goalkeeper gianluigi donnarumma stopped a double effort from steven zuber in the 64th minute to protect their flawless record over the last 10 games, before immobile twice fired narrowly wide.
the italy striker did get onto the scoresheet in the 89th minute, however, thumping in his shot from 20 metres to beat goalkeeper yann sommer.
switzerland have now won none of their last nine matches against italy and last beat their neighbours 28 years ago.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
madrid (reuters) sergio ramos burst into tears as he said farewell to real madrid on thursday (june 17) after 16 years at the club in which he became one of their most iconic players and lifted 22 trophies.
ramos, who made 671 appearances for real and scored 101 goals including netting in two champions league finals, ran down his contract with the 13-time european champions and was unable to agree a new deal with the club.
"one of the most difficult moments in my life has arrived, you are never prepared to say goodbye to real madrid but the time has come," ramos said before bursting into tears in a farewell ceremony at the club's valdebebas training ground.
"a marvellous, unique era has come to an end but an exciting new future has opened to me and i'm very keen to demonstrate i can play at the top level for a few more years and add a couple more trophies to my list of honours.
"club president florentino perez, who brought ramos to real from sevilla in 2005, thanked the player for "making real madrid's legend even greater and ensuring it is the most admired club in the world".
"it's not an easy day because you've been really special to me and you and i have lived and suffered through historic moments for real madrid," perez added.
"i wish you all the best and want you to know this will always be your home, a legend like you will always be one of this club's great ambassadors.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
rome: manuel locatelli bagged a brace of goals for the first time in his career as imperious italy defeated switzerland 3-0 at the stadio olimpico on wednesday to become the first side into the last-16 of euro 2020. midfielder locatelli started and finished the move from which he opened the scoring, netting from close range following sassuolo team mate domenico berardi's excellent run down the right wing.
he then rifled a shot into the bottom corner of the net from the edge of the box early in the second half.
ciro immobile added a late third to secure back-to-back 3-0 wins for italy in the tournament, which extends their unbeaten run to 29 games, the last 10 of which have been victories where they have scored 31 goals and conceded none.
italy lead group a with six points after two rounds of matches and are ahead of wales (four), switzerland (one) and turkey (zero).
they can seal top spot with a draw in their final group game against wales on sunday when the swiss face turkey.
the italians outclassed their opponents and delighted the home crowd who have now seen their side score three times in a european championship match for the second game in a row having never done so previously.
italy skipper giorgio chiellini, making his 14th european championship appearance, more than any other outfield player for italy, thought he had scored when he powered past two defenders to fire in from close range only for his effort to be ruled out for handball.
the italians were not to be denied, however, even after chiellini went off injured, with locatelli launching a move with a brilliant pass and then finishing it off after berardi had cut in from the right in the 26th minute.
the swiss pressed high after the break in search of an equaliser but it was italy who scored again with locatelli rifling in from the edge of the box for his second goal of the evening.
italy keeper gianluigi donnarumma stopped a double effort from steven zuber in the 64th minute to protect their flawless record over the last 10 games, before immobile twice fired narrowly wide.
the italy striker did get onto the scoresheet in the 89th, however, thumping in his shot from 20 metres to beat keeper yann sommer.
switzerland have now won none of their last nine matches against italy and last beat their neighbours 28 years ago.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the doctor who treated denmark's christian eriksen has spoken to german media about the "moving moment" he brought the midfielder back to life after he collapsed during his country's opening euro 2020 game.
an electric shock was administered to the 29-year-old after a few minutes of heart massage, german doctor jens kleinefeld told the funke media group in an interview published thursday (june 17).
"about 30 seconds later, the player opened his eyes and i could talk to him directly," kleinefeld said.
"that was a very moving moment, because in such medical emergencies in everyday life, the chances of success are much lower. "
dr kleinefeld said he looked at the inter milan midfielder and asked him, "well, are you back with us?
"eriksen answered, "yes, i am back with you" and, "damn, i'm only 29 years old," the doctor said.
"that's when i knew the brain wasn't damaged and he had fully returned," he said.
eriksen responded successfully to commands and was fully conscious in the stadium, kleinefeld said, but it took time to equip him with all the monitors required for safe transport to hospital.
electric shock treatment usually has a high success rate in healthy professional athletes compared to normal patients with pre-existing conditions, he said.
"i was 99 per cent sure in the stadium that he would arrive at the hospital and remain stable," he said.
in a scene that shocked the sporting world and beyond, eriksen suddenly collapsed on the field in the 43rd minute of denmark's group b game on saturday against finland in copenhagen.
medical personnel administered cardiopulmonary resuscitation as he lay motionless on the field for about 15 minutes before being carried off the pitch and rushed to hospital.
he was later confirmed to have suffered a cardiac arrest.
eriksen's inter teammate romelu lukaku said there will be a tribute to him when belgium meet denmark on thursday.
belgium will kick the ball out of play in the 10th minute to allow everyone to applaud him.
– afpget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountdanish star christian eriksen, who suffered a cardiac arrest during his country's euro 2020 opener last weekend, will have a heart defibrillator implanted, the danish football union (dbu) announced thursday.
the inter milan midfielder collapsed and required cpr during denmark's game against finland in copenhagen where he remains in hospital.
"after christian has been through different heart examinations it has been decided that he should have an icd (heart starter)," the danish football body said in a statement on twitter.
"this device is necessary after a cardiac attack due to rhythm disturbances," it added.
dbu provided no details on the potential consequences for the 29-year-old inter milan player's future career.
eriksen "has accepted the solution" and it had also been "confirmed by specialists nationally and internationally who all recommend the same treatment," dbu said.
players, such as dutchman daley blind, have been able to resume their careers after being fitted with the device, which controls and regulates the heart rate.
the announcement of the medical procedure comes hours before the kick-off to denmark's next match against belgium, where a tribute to the danish number 10 is scheduled to take place in the 10th minute of the match.
© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
copenhagen: denmark's christian eriksen will get a heart starter device implanted after his collapse during denmark's euro 2020 opener on saturday (jun 12), the team's national team doctor said in a statement on thursday.
"after christian has been through different heart examinations it has been decided that he should have an icd (heart starter)," doctor morten boesen said.
he added that such a device is necessary after a cardiac attack due to rhythm disturbances.
gunnar gislason, head of research at the danish heart foundation and a professor of cardiology, told reuters that a return to elite sport after the insertion of an icd is possible.
"it really depends on the condition you are treating, what kind of heart disease you are suffering from, that's very individual, (but) there are examples of top athletes that have come back to the field and restart normal activity," he said.
the operation to insert an icd takes one to two hours and is done under local anaesthetic, gislason explained, with patients usually kept in an extra day to calibrate the unit and ensure there are no issues with its operation.
"it's like a monitor, it monitors the rhythm of the heart.
for most people, they will never have to use it, but for those who maybe have a serious cardiac arrhythmia or cardiac arrest, the icd can detect it and respond to it," gislason said.
daley blind, a former team mate of eriksen's at ajax amsterdam, had an icd fitted after collapsing in a friendly against hertha berlin in 2020 and was part of the netherlands side that faced ukraine less than 24 hours after eriksen's collapse.
after the game blind spoke of his distress at seeing his friend fall to the ground, saying "it made me sleep badly and also really think about not playing, it was a big mental hurdle to overcome, but i'm glad i did.
"blind's career could have ended following his own collapse, but doctors inserted an icd and he was cleared to return to football.
"it (the icd) has two main functions.
it can try to override the fast heart rhythm and in that way take control of the rhythm of the heart and then slowly go down and restore the normal heart rhythm," gislason explained.
"if it doesn't succeed with that, it will give a shock, like a normal defibrillator, and it will try to regenerate a normal heart rhythm in that way, so it's a life-saving device for those who have a serious cardiac arrhythmia or cardiac arrest.
"danish fans at radhuspladsen in copenhagen on thursday were unanimous in their desire to see eriksen back on the field.
"christian eriksen has to play he's a national symbol, a legend, so of course i want him to play," anton olesen told reuters ahead of denmark's second group b game against belgiumit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.


denmark lost their first game and must now take points to stay in the playoff race.
will the danes make headlines or will we see another routine victory for the belgians?
our money is on the second choice.
denmark have a strong squad besides christian eriksen: braithwaite, dolberg, hojbjerg, poulsen, delaney, kjaer, christensen, westergaard and schmeichel.
but unfortunately, this set of players wasn't enough to defeat the finns, who lost 0-1.  the danes were memorable for their 22 shots on goal and 70% possession.
the finns, on the other hand, needed just one attack to take away the three points.
this was made possible by the unreliable play of kasper schmeichel.
it is worth recalling that, one week before the euro, the danes managed to draw with the germans 1-1.  therefore, we cannot rule out miracles in this team's performance.
we didn't see the full extent of belgium's brilliance because of the generosity of the russian defenders, especially andrei semyonov.
romelu lukaku and thomas meunier took advantage of it, as he replaced the injured timothy castagne in the first half.
in total, it was a 3-0 win.
the belgians will now face denmark, whom they defeated in the last round of the nations league.
roberto martinez will certainly have to put a lot of effort into preparing and analysing his opponent.
we believe that belgium must win again beautifully.
moreover, the tournament has just begun, and it is too early for the belgians to relax.
that is why our bet on the match is belgium's victory for 2.
11.  we also think that goals will be scored by both sides, as the danes will fight for the win doubly for christian eriksen and recovery from the loss to the finns.
therefore, we suggest betting on both to score yes for 1.
98. 
in conclusion, we are confident that romelu lukaku will score another goal at the euro.
he is in the unstoppable form right now, so we are waiting for the continuation.
marathonbet gives odds of 2.
25 for his goal.
all materials on this site are available under license creative commons attribution 4.
0 international.
you must include the name of the author (creator) of the work (material) and the party of attribution, copyright notice, license title, disclaimer notice and link to the material, if provided with the material.
the first words of christian eriksen after he saw his life saved by medics during denmark's clash with finland at euro 2020 have been revealed, with the inter star telling doctors on the back of suffering cardiac arrest: "oh sh*t, i'm only 29 years old.
"the danish playmaker collapsed in copenhagen on saturday and had to be resuscitated on the field after quick thinking from his team-mates and doctors.
he is now on the road to recovery, as he remains in hospital, but suffered a serious and unexpected health scare as a professional sportsman that was seemingly in peak physical condition.
german doctor jens kleinefeld, who helped deliver the shock that restarted eriksen's heart, has told bild on bringing the dane back: "i was sitting in the stands on the opposite side when eriksen collapsed.
i didn't think anything of it at first.
but then i saw the danish team doctor acting relatively frantically, i realised it was not a normal injury.
"i messaged the sideline team and they ran onto the field.
they had the defibrillator with them.
i then told my colleague in the stands that we had to get onto the pitch.
"the danish team doctor initially had difficulty fully grasping the situation.
when you start reanimation, you have to do it as quickly as possible.
but the team doctors mainly treat all kinds of injuries, so it's more difficult for them to recognise cardiac death directly.
"we have already seen that when they tried to pull the tongue out of the throat.
that is nonsense, of course and doesn't save a life.
a minimal hyperextension of the head is quite sufficient.
"within the first two minutes, the shock should be delivered.
with eriksen, it took two or three minutes.
that's when the chance of survival is very high.
if the shock is delivered within the first two minutes, then the chance of survival is almost 90 per cent.
the chance of survival drops 10 per cent per minute.
we had to hurry.
"after two minutes, i saw that the shock was successful.
then it took another 20 or 30 seconds for eriksen's consciousness to return.
"he opened his eyes and spoke to me.
i asked him in english: are you back?
he said: 'yes, i am here'.
and then he said: 'oh sh*t, i'm only 29 years old'.
"i told him that everything was fine now and there was no more danger.
he immediately understood everything and was able to put his arm on his chest.
this was a great example on how to save lives.
"i see myself as a lifesaver.
especially with the training beforehand.
to me, it was just a normal operation.
i just tuned everything out.
it was a beautiful moment when eriksen opened his eyes again. "
the former tottenham star has sent a message to well wishers from his hospital bed and will be an interested observer when denmark return to action on thursday against belgium.
he has posted on social media: "big thanks for your sweet and amazing greetings and messages from all around the world.
it means a lot to me and my family.
"i'm fine under the circumstances.
i still have to go through some examinations at the hospital, but i feel okay.
"now, i will cheer on the boys on the denmark team in the next matches.
play for all of denmark.
"it remains to be seen whether eriksen will resume a competitive football career, but he will like netherlands defender daley blind be fitted with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (icd).
denmark team doctor morten boesen has said: "after christian has been through different heart examinations it has been decided that he should have an icd.
"this device is necessary after cardiac attack due to rhythm disturbances.
"christian has accepted the solution and the plan has moreover been confirmed by specialists nationally and internationally who all recommend the same treatment.
"we encourage everybody to give christian and his family peace and privacy [in] the following time. "
sergio ramos may be leaving real madrid, but what he has achieved at santiago bernabeu is written indelibly into the club's history.
one of the game's biggest personalities, brimming with ego but boasting the quality to back it up, ramos will end an era in white on thursday.
whatever explanation ramos gives at his goodbye press conference, however twisted and taut the relationship between the defender and president florentino perez became at times, it does not sour his legend at the club.
neither does the 35-year-old's last year on the sidelines, even though this quiet farewell is not a fitting end to a blockbuster career in the spanish capital.
and while the legend tag is often overused, for ramos it may not even go far enough.
the andalusian played for real madrid for 16 seasons, in a total of 671 games, scoring a remarkable 101 goals and lifting 22 trophies.
only paco gento (23) has more, winning those in the 1950s and 60s.
the six european cups he won cannot be compared to the four ramos has lifted, which were achieved under far greater competition in the modern era.
since the european cup became the champions league in 1992, no side had managed to win it for two seasons in a row, until ramos captained madrid to three consecutive trophies, between 2016-2018. and yet, perhaps his greatest individual effort was in their 2014 triumph.
it was ramos' header in the 93rd minute that forced the champions league final with rivals atletico madrid into extra time, sparking real's comeback to win their desperately craved tenth european cup la decima.
madrid had waited over a decade for it, and ramos was the man who made it possible.
that is why the numbers do not do him justice, as impressive as they are.
plainly, they show his value to madrid over the past 16 years, but they cannot tell the underlying story.
the story of denying their neighbours the chance to lift the trophy for the first time.
the constant battles with barcelona, ramos' part in the clasico rivalry, the countless inspirational messages to supporters, bleeding white, not red, for the club.
"ramos is what i call a personality leader," former and current real madrid coach carlo ancelotti wrote in his book 'quiet leadership'.
"a leader with strong character, who is never scared, never worried, and always positive.
"ramos' wild chaos, his visceral style of defending, will be missed.
that is what he brings as captain and what numbers cannot hope to tell though some will point to his career tally of 26 red cards to at least shine some light on his combative nature.
he fought his way into the centre of defence after playing as right back in his early years at the club, but once he earned his place, he was impossible to shift.
a fine defender and yet a better leader, ramos' story will not be told in clean sheets but in moments and in feeling, in panenka penalties and last-ditch sliding tackles.
in that goal against atletico but also the two headers in four minutes against bayern munich in the semi-final second leg in 2014, that took madrid to their first champions league final for 12 years.
after that, it has been hard to keep them out of it.
there will be plenty of real madrid fans not old enough to remember the team without ramos in it, and several more who simply cannot, despite their age.
it was september 2005 when ramos made his debut for madrid, as a substitute under coach wanderley luxemburgo, replacing francisco pavon in a 3-2 defeat by celta vigo at the bernabeu.
there were high hopes for him then, having arrived for €27 million from sevilla, but he has surpassed every expectation by a distance.
it was in 2010 that he cemented his place in the heart of the defence, as pepe struggled with a knee problem.
half a decade later, and he had already cemented legend status, before the treble of champions league wins had even begun.
that summer, ramos toyed with leaving, potentially joining manchester united, although he eventually used their interest to eke more money from madrid.
the mood turned against him in the capital, but only very briefly.
going to war with perez does not upset a fanbase who have often chanted for the president to resign.
it is just as well for madrid he did not, playing a vital role alongside raphael varane under zinedine zidane.
ramos has played under 12 different coaches, 13 if you count zidane in his second spell as well.
he played with the same aggression throughout his career, as mohamed salah bore witness to in the 2018 champions league final, with ramos' unorthodox challenge forcing the liverpool star from the pitch, smoothing madrid's path towards another trophy.
"he is our captain, our leader.
we want him here forever," said zidane before christmas.
but the coach is gone, and now ramos follows.
yes, purely as a defender, there have been a few better.
as for sheer talent, cristiano ronaldo is above him, alfredo di stefano too, as well as zidane.
but as a 21st century real madrid icon, there are none grander than their eternal captain.
while ronaldo belongs not only to los blancos but also to manchester united, ramos is 110 per cent madrid's, despite his sevilla roots and no matter what the next chapter has in store.
copenhagen: the cardiac arrest suffered by denmark midfielder christian eriksen during a euro 2020 match has seen a seven-fold increase in sign-ups for the "heart runner" app, which allows emergency services to quickly direct citizen responders to assist heart attack victims.
eriksen's life was saved when cpr was administered to him on the pitch and his heart was re-started with a defibrillator before he was taken to hospital, where he is recovering.
the incident shocked millions of tv viewers around the world and prompted hundreds of danes to sign up for the app as volunteers who will make themselves available in similar situations.
"this tragic incident has put in perspective what is really important, and that you and i can make a difference by performing cpr," fredrik folke, clinical professor at copenhagen university and head of research at the copenhagen emergency medical service, told reuters.
"in a normal weekend we would have around 90 to 100 new signups, but just after the match and until the next morning we had around 700 new signups.
"the app is part of a scheme backed by non-profit foundation trygfonden, and folke says almost all those signing up as volunteers have had formal cpr training.
"you sign up for the app and you register.
if there's a cardiac arrest, we can automatically alert the ten nearest citizen responders and they would receive the alert immediately," folke said.
"they will be instructed to either run directly to the cardiac arrest and do cpr, or directed to the nearest defibrillator in the vicinity, which they can use before the emergency services arrive.
"eriksen's collapse during the match against finland has prompted calls around the world for more cpr training and for defibrillators to be more available, not least at sports grounds and training facilities.
doctors are still trying to establish the cause of eriksen's heart stoppage.
the inter milan player has posted a picture of himself on social media thanking fans for their support.
according to statistics from trygfonden, the chances of surviving a heart attack increase from less than 10per cent to over 70per cent if the victim receives cpr and a shock from a defibrillator before the ambulance arrives.
as shown at copenhagen's parken stadium on saturday, quick action is necessary.
"you can't do anything wrong when you do cpr the only wrong thing you can do is to not do anything," folke said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
date published: wednesday 16th june 2021 10:52               steve pearson italy manager roberto mancini indirectly fired a warning to every team at euro 2020 after highlighting a frequent shortcoming against switzerland.
italy became the first team to book their place in the last 16 at euro 2020 after registering hugely impressive back-to-back 3-0 victories.
manuel locatelli bagged a career first before ciro immobile notched late on in a performance where italy never let up.
give our social media channels a follow – we're on facebook, twitter and instagramtoday's result raised their scarcely believable tally of unanswered goals across all competitions to 31.  additionally, they have now registered 10 successive clean sheets.
speaking after the match (via corriere dello sport), mancini said: "the team played a difficult match, they are good and physical, we struggled at the beginning but then we deservedly won.
we could have closed it earlier but we did well, it wasn't easy.
"on the outstanding performance of locatelli, the ex-man city boss said: "he played a great game.
two goals for a midfielder is not easy, but everyone was good because this was the second game in five days.
match report: imperious italy despatch switzerland as locatelli registers career first"we want to get out of the back to get to the attackers, we often missed the last pass.
the goals were very good and we could have closed the game even earlier.
"allaying fears of a giorgio chiellini layoff after the veteran was substituted early, mancini added: "let's hope it's nothing.
serious, we'll see tomorrow.
"when asked if he views france as the favourites, mancini concluded: "there are national teams that are ahead of us in the work of growth, but in football anything can happen.
this italy can grow, i repeat.
there are many young players, the margins are great. "
speaking on bbc radio 5 live, pundit leon osman labelled italy "outstanding" and insisted others must now take note.
"brilliant performance from italy and they controlled it from start to finish," said the ex-everton midfielder.
"three wonderful goals and they really look like a team that people will have to take notice of.
they played against a decent switzerland side, controlled the game and looked outstanding.
"i really enjoyed watching them and they were full of energy which is great to see in the modern game.
they want to score goals and entertain.
they look impressive from what we've seen so far.
"manuel locatelli scored twice in the same game for the first time in his career at.
.
.
england playmaker jack grealish is desperate to play against scotland and prove to europe how good.
.
.
wales boss rob page hailed a star who "can't even get in a championship side," while.
.
.
gary neville believes gareth southgate has a dilemma concerning injured defender harry maguire ahead of the.
.
.
christian eriksen will be fitted with an icd a heart defibrillator after he suffered a cardiac incident in the match against finland, denmark have confirmed.
the inter star fell to the pitch unconscious on the second match day of euro 2020 and had to be resuscitated before then being transported to hospital.
now, after a series of tests carried out by medical specialists, it has been announced that eriksen will have a potentially life-saving implant installed.
national team doctor morten boesen has been in contact with the cardiac specialist at rigshospitalet and eriksen, and this is the latest status: "after christian has been through different heart examinations it has been decided that he should have an icd (heart starter).
this device is necessary after a cardiac attack due to rhythm disturbances.
"christian has accepted the solution and the plan has moreover been confirmed by specialists nationally and internationally who all recommend the same treatment.
"we encourage everybody to give christian and his family peace and privacy the following time.
"yes.
taking to social media on tuesday, the attacking midfielder wrote: "big thanks for your sweet and amazing greetings and messages from all around the world.
it means a lot to me and my family.
"i'm fine under the circumstances.
i still have to go through some examinations at the hospital, but i feel okay.
"now, i will cheer on the boys on the denmark team in the next matches.
play for all of denmark.
"it is not yet known whether eriksen will be able to play football again.
it is not unheard of, though, as the example of german forward daniel engelbrecht showed.
engelbrecht collapsed on the pitch while playing for stuttgart kickers in july 2013, having suffered from a heart attack.
he was then fitted with a defibrillator and returned to the pitch in november of 2014 after 17 months of recovery.
however, engelbrecht suffered from more heart issues down the line and hung up his boots in 2018 to concentrate on a career in coaching.
in terms of players still in the game, ajax and netherlands star daley blind continues to play at the highest level after having an icd implanted in december 2019.
baku: captain gareth bale inspired a scintillating 2-0 victory for wales over turkey on wednesday (jun 16), giving the dragons a big leap towards the european championship knockout stages and reviving memories of their 2016 run to the semi-finals.
midfielder aaron ramsey missed two early chances, but made no mistake just before halftime when he chested down bale's perfect ball over the defence to slot past the goalkeeper.
wales could have doubled the lead at the hour mark when bale was tripped by zeki celik and awarded a penalty, but the welsh skipper skied his effort after a stuttering run up.
wales were rewarded for their superiority throughout when they scored right at the death as a corner was played short and defender connor roberts was on hand to divert another bale pass past goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
"we fought hard, we worked our socks off like we always do," bale said.
the group a win thrilled the few hundred wales fans outnumbered by turkish supporters at baku's olympic stadium and many more at home who are dreaming of another euros run like their first appearance in the tournament five years ago.
the surprise semi-finalists then, who next play italy, now have four points, after drawing with switzerland in their opener.
turkey, without points, take on the swiss next.
remarkably, wales now have the best winning percentage in the euros' history: 63 per cent or five wins in eight games.
wednesday's man-of-the-match bale twice picked out ramsey before his goal with superb defence-splitting passes.
cakır denied him from a tight angle in the sixth minute and then ramsey thundered a shot over the bar in the 24th.
there was nothing lucky about the third time, though, with bale floating a superbly-timed cross in the 42nd minute for ramsey who brought the ball down perfectly to slot under cakir.
turkey apologeticwith turkish and azeri presidents tayyip erdogan and ilham aliyev in the stands, turkey upped the pace after the break.
captain burak yilmaz, who had missed a good chance in the first half, should have scored 10 minutes after the restart when he was unmarked in front of the welsh goal but blazed a volley from three metres out well over the crossbar.
on the hour, bale was brought down just inside the box to earn a spot kick.
but the 31-year-old's effort flew high and wide to keep the turks in the game.
"it's unfortunate but what he did show was character afterwards," said wales manager rob page.
"everybody makes mistakes.
ok, he missed it, but so what?
he got man of the match!
"the disappointing turks did force a good save from keeper danny ward when he punched a merih demiral header wide in the 87th minute.
but they ran out of steam in stoppage time, allowing bale to cut inside to feed roberts for the second goal.
"i would like to apologise," turkey defender umut meras said.
"we wanted to win so hard tonight but that was not enough.
"turkey coach senol gunes lamented his team could not level the game after going behind but had warm words for wales.
"we had many chances but couldn't find the equaliser.
wales played a good match.
they were effective with their pivot striker and two wingers," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen • denmark can take heart that christian eriksen is recovering and will be cheering them on as they try to salvage their euro 2020 campaign against belgium in copenhagen today.
kasper hjulmand's side know that their qualification from group b will be in jeopardy if they get the same treatment that the belgians dished out to russia in a 3-0 win on saturday, and they need to bounce back from their traumatic 1-0 defeat by finland.
eriksen told the world on tuesday that he was "fine under the circumstances" following his sickening mid-match cardiac arrest and said he will be right behind the teammates who rallied to his side as medics rushed to save his life.
hjulmand said in a press conference that the 29-year-old midfielder was in daily contact with the rest of the team and was trying to gee up his friends before they face the world's top-ranked team.
"we can focus more and more on football and prepare for the game," he said, but admitted that some players might still be rattled.
"we will prepare ourselves as well as possible, but it will be emotional for sure.
but we should use these emotions for the match, and get ready to fight.
"he did not want to go into details about who would replace eriksen in the line-up.
"no one can replace christian.
no one.
it's not possible.
.
.
he is the heart of the team," the coach said.
"we will do something else, we'll do something different but we will definitely have a strong team on the pitch.
"the match will be played at the parken stadium, where denmark will have the backing of 25,000 fans after the scandinavian nation relaxed coronavirus restrictions.
the 16,000 home fans present for the finland match created a wall of noise in the first half as denmark piled on the pressure, and will be in even fuller voice to cheer on their team today.
some have taken to spray-painting murals in honour of their missing star around copenhagen.
no one can replace christian.
no one.
it's not possible.
.
.
he is the heart of the team.
denmark will need all the support they can get against eriksen's inter milan teammate romelu lukaku, whose ominous double in belgium's win over the russians showed why at the age of just 28 he is by some distance belgium's record scorer with 62 goals.
belgium top group b on goal difference ahead of russia and can seal their passage to the knockout stage with a game to spare.
roberto martinez's side have been further boosted by the news that borussia dortmund midfielder alex witsel is available after recovering from an achilles tendon injury which had kept him out of action since january.
witsel began running only about a month ago but belgium's physiotherapist lieven maesschalck, who guided the player's recovery, said "he isn't scared" about his return.
"he is ready to play even if the risk of a relapse isn't zero," said maesschalck on tuesday.
the news comes after playmaker kevin de bruyne trained with the squad for the first time on monday, sparking hopes he could too play a role against the danes.
the manchester city playmaker missed the russia match after having surgery for nose and eye socket fractures suffered in last month's champions league final.
meanwhile, eden hazard, who had done little training with the squad after an injury-filled season at real madrid, played 20 minutes against russia and martinez wants his captain to be involved today.
"i was very happy with his appearance and think it was a massive step forward.
he is playing again with freedom and intuition," the belgium coach said.
"now it will be important that he shows this over 90 minutes.
against denmark, he will have to see more action.
"agence france-pressesingtel tv ch141 & starhub livenow app, 11.
50pmjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
munich: germany already have their backs to the wall at euro 2020 after their opening loss to world champions france on tuesday (jun 16) but they are confident there will be no a repeat of their shock first round exit at the last world cup.
defender mats hummels' first-half own goal gave france the 1-0 group f win and leaves three-time champions germany in need of points from their last two matches against holders portugal on saturday and hungary next week, with both games in munich again.
"this defeat is very painful, especially for me as my own goal decided the game," said hummels, who was recalled to the squad for the tournament after having been dropped more than two years ago.
"we obviously know full well that there is room for improvement in our game.
but you could see that we want to fight really hard in this tournament, that we want to excite you (the fans) and be successful.
"the germans certainly lacked fighting spirit in russia three years ago when they were sensationally eliminated in the first round of the world cup after losing their opening game to mexico and managing just one win from three group games.
on tuesday they were up against arguably the most complete team in the world and worked hard until the end to try to turn the game around and avoid a first ever defeat in a euro opener.
while they again struggled to carve out clear scoring chances they did deliver a solid second-half performance, earning some praise from german media.
the tournament format with three group matches means that one win could be enough to advance to the knockout stage and midfielder toni kroos said there was no point dwelling on the defeat.
"we have to look ahead now," he said.
"obviously when you lose the first game and you only have three then the pressure is always great.
"how coach joachim loew's team handle this pressure against portugal might decide their fate.
for midfielder joshua kimmich, germany showed in the defeat to france that they can compete with the best.
"what we did was we showed that we can certainly keep up with top teams at this level," kimmich said.
"france are one of the title contenders.
in the next game we have to show that we also are one of the title contenders.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
portugal coach fernando santos said a tactical tweak and timely substitutions helped the defending european champions unlock group f opponents hungary's defence in their 3-0 victory yesterday morning (singapore time), after enduring plenty of anxious moments.
hungary soaked up the pressure from portugal in front of a boisterous crowd of 67,000 at budapest's puskas arena and looked set to grab a point, before raphael guerreiro broke the deadlock in the 84th minute and cristiano ronaldo netted a late double.
with the clock ticking away, santos brought on rafa silva who won the penalty that ronaldo dispatched, while the energy of fellow substitutes joao moutinho, andre silva as well as renato sanches also made a difference late on.
"in the second half.
.
.
we were a bit anxious as the clock was ticking and we wanted to win," santos told reporters.
"i started subbing in some players to increase the pace of the game.
i moved ronaldo to the left a bit and released raphael because i thought he wasn't getting close to the goal.
he played a great game.
.
.
so we let him move inside.
"sometimes you get things right and sometimes you don't get them right, but we always strive for the best.
the players that came on did very well, and the ones that went off also did well.
"ronaldo, who reached two milestones during the match, is already eyeing a victory in their next match on saturday against germany, who lost 1-0 to france in their group f opener.
"it was essential to start on the right foot in order to gain confidence.
now, we have to continue and win the next game," said the juventus forward, 36. ronaldo, who was playing in a record fifth european championship, has now scored 11 goals in the tournament, overtaking michel platini as its all-time leading scorer.
he is also just three goals away from matching iranian ali daei's all-time international scoring record of 109. ronaldo started alongside diogo jota and bernardo silva up front, with the likes bruno fernandes pulling the strings in midfield, but the hungarians held firm to repel their attacks.
the hosts offered very little from open play, although they sent portugal a warning shortly before half-time when adam szalai headed a free-kick too close to rui patricio.
the best chance of the first half fell to ronaldo in the 44th minute, only for the portugal captain to plant the ball over from six metres after meeting guerreiro's low cross.
portugal came out of the blocks quickly after the break but hungary grew in confidence and thought they had taken a shock lead through substitute szabolcs schon, who was denied by the offside flag.
but santos' changes did the trick and his men are looking forward to facing germany and france.
he said: "this is the group stage and we need to progress.
it's 'kill or be killed', like (former portugal boss) luiz felipe scolari used to say. "
afp, reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
 share copiedmanuel locatelli of italy celebrates during the euro 2020 group a match against switzerland in rome, italy, june 16, 2021.
/cfpmanuel locatelli bagged a brace of goals for the first time in his career as imperious italy defeated switzerland 3-0 at the stadio olimpico on wednesday to become the first side into the last-16 of euro 2020. midfielder locatelli started and finished the move from which he opened the scoring, netting from close range following sassuolo team mate domenico berardi's excellent run down the right wing.
he then rifled a shot into the bottom corner of the net from the edge of the box early in the second half.
ciro immobile added a late third to secure back-to-back 3-0 wins for italy in the tournament, which extends their unbeaten run to 29 games, the last 10 of which have been victories where they have scored 31 goals and conceded none.
italy lead group a with six points after two rounds of matches and are ahead of wales (four), switzerland (one) and turkey (zero).
they can seal top spot with a draw in their final group game against wales on sunday when the swiss face turkey.
the italians outclassed their opponents and delighted the home crowd who have now seen their side score three times in a european championship match for the second game in a row having never done so previously.
italy skipper giorgio chiellini, making his 14th european championship appearance, more than any other outfield player for italy, thought he had scored when he powered past two defenders to fire in from close range only for his effort to be ruled out for handball.
the italians were not to be denied, however, even after chiellini went off injured, with locatelli launching a move with a brilliant pass and then finishing it off after berardi had cut in from the right in the 26th minute.
the swiss pressed high after the break in search of an equalizer but it was italy who scored again with locatelli rifling in from the edge of the box for his second goal of the evening.
italy keeper gianluigi donnarumma stopped a double effort from steven zuber in the 64th minute to protect their flawless record over the last 10 games, before immobile twice fired narrowly wide.
the italy striker did get onto the scoresheet in the 89th, however, thumping in his shot from 20 meters to beat keeper yann sommer.
switzerland have now won none of their last nine matches against italy and last beat their neighbors 28 years ago.
wales players celebrate after winning the euro 2020 group a match against turkey in baku, azerbaijan, june 16, 2021.
/cfpelsewhere on wednesday, wales captain gareth bale inspired a scintillating 2-0 victory for his side over turkey, giving the dragons a big leap towards the european championship knockout stages and reviving memories of their 2016 run to the semi-finals.
midfielder aaron ramsey missed two early chances, but made no mistake just before halftime when he chested down bale's perfect ball over the defence to slot past the goalkeeper.
wales could have doubled the lead at the hour mark when bale was tripped by zeki celik and awarded a penalty, but the welsh skipper skied his effort after a stuttering run up.
wales were rewarded for their superiority throughout when they scored right at the death as a corner was played short and defender connor roberts was on hand to divert another bale pass past goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
russia defeated finland 1-0 with a first-hald goal from aleksei miranchuk, as they bounced back from losing their opening game 3-0 to belgium.
copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3
published :
													16 jun 2021 at 07:45												writer: 
															afp budapest: cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
the holders, who appear to have a much stronger squad than when they won their first major title five years ago, laboured for long periods in budapest.
but raphael guerreiro made the vital breakthrough in the 84th minute and ronaldo slammed in a penalty shortly afterwards before tapping home in injury time.
"it was essential to start on the right foot in order to gain confidence," said ronaldo.
"now, we have to continue and win the next game.
"the juventus striker has now scored 11 goals in the tournament, two more than french great michel platini, who netted nine times when he led france to glory in 1984. the 36-year-old is also just three goals away from matching iranian ali daei's all-time international scoring record of 109.
"it was a difficult game, against an opponent who defended very well during 90 minutes, but we scored three goals, and i am very grateful to the team for helping me to score two goals," he added.
ronaldo chose by far the biggest crowd of the tournament to break the record in front of, with budapest the only euro 2020 venue not to limit fan capacity due to covid-19.
the puskas arena has a capacity of almost 68,000 fans.
"we didn't deserve a 3-0 defeat, with a bit of luck it could have been a point each, but it was an experience of a lifetime," said hungary goalkeeper peter gulacsi.
world cup winners france and three-time european champions germany meet in the other group f game later in the day at munich's allianz arena.
portugal coach fernando santos opted to play liverpool forward diogo jota and bernardo silva alongside ronaldo, with joao felix left on the bench.
it almost paid instant dividends, as jota forced gulacsi into a smart save with a left-footed drive in the fourth minute, although he perhaps should have squared the ball for an unmarked ronaldo.
the portuguese talisman created an opportunity for bernardo silva in the 28th minute by winning the ball back high up the pitch, only for the manchester city winger to delay his shot too long and see the opening snuffed out by an excellent tackle from hungary centre-back willi orban.
hungary offered very little from open play, although they sent portugal a warning shortly before half-time when adam szalai headed a free-kick too close to rui patricio.
the best chance of the opening period fell to ronaldo in the 44th minute, only for the portugal captain to plant the ball over from six yards out after meeting guerreiro's low cross.
portugal came out of the blocks quickly after the break, knowing failure to win would put them in trouble in such a difficult group, with pepe seeing a downward header well saved by the stretching gulacsi.
santos' men continued to press despite hungary growing in confidence, with bruno fernandes drawing gulacsi into another fine stop with a dipping strike from long range.
despite having felix, in-form eintracht frankfurt striker andre silva and pedro goncalves, last season's top scorer in the portuguese league, on the bench, santos waited until the 71st minute to make a change, sending on rafa silva for bernardo silva.
hungary thought they had snatched a shock lead through substitute szabolcs schon, but he was denied by the offside flag.
rafa silva played a key role in the opening goal, though, as his deflected cross was met by guerreiro, whose shot also took a huge deflection and dribbled agonisingly into the corner of the hungarian net.
the home side's resistance was totally over three minutes later, as orban pulled back rafa silva clean through on goal.
ronaldo made no mistake, sending gulacsi the wrong way to add another record to his collection on the day he became the first player in history to play at five european championships.
there was more to come from ronaldo, as he danced through after a one-two with rafa silva and rolled in his 106th goal for portugal.
nonthaburi: to men, one a soldier, have been arrested for allegedly demanding 2 million baht from a businessman in return for not posting obscene pictures of him on social media.
new york: a global summary of the covid-19 situation.
thailand has been given an award by the world health organization (who) in switzerland for its success in almost eliminating mother-to-child transmission of hiv and syphilis.
gareth bale missed a penalty in the second half, but a 42nd-minute strike from aaron ramsey and an injury-time goal by connor roberts helped wales beat turkey 2-0 in a euro 2020 group a match in baku this morning (singapore time).
the victory in azerbaijan's capital put the welsh side in a good position to reach the knockout stages.
they had drawn 1-1 with switzerland last week.
in last night's group b game, a goal in first-half injury time by aleksei miranchuk got russia's euro 2020 campaign back on track as they beat finland 1-0. joel pohjanpalo thought he had given the finns the lead in the fifth minute, but his powerful header was ruled out for offside after a var (video assistant referee) review.
with both sides committing men forward, miranchuk popped up just before the break to curl in a superb left-footed effort.
the result moves russia up to second in group b on three points, ahead of finland thanks to the head-to-head result.
belgium, who beat russia 3-0 last week, meet denmark tonight.
reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
munich • didier deschamps was happy with france's commitment in tuesday's 1-0 euro 2020 group f win over germany but said the world champions must look to retain possession better through the rest of the tournament.
france handed the germans their first opening-game loss in an european championship, courtesy of an own goal by mats hummels in the 20th minute.
statistics showed that les bleus had just over 40 per cent possession and only four attempts on goal compared to germany's 10 but deschamps said they were more clinical than joachim low's side in munich.
"i wouldn't say that we did dominate them because we played against a good team in germany who caused us problems," the france coach said.
"they had a lot of ball possession, more than us.
we were defending very well.
it was a match played on a very high level, two titans facing each other.
we could have done things better, especially in ball possession.
"france midfielder paul pogba accused antonio rudiger of "nibbling" him on the shoulder during the game but said he was not looking for the germany defender to face punishment.
the two players clashed towards the end of the first half, with rudiger caught on camera putting his face close to pogba's back before reaching his arms around the frenchman's chest.
there was no action taken by the officials.
"he nibbled, i think, a little bit on me," pogba said.
"i told the referee and he took a decision.
it's over.
we hugged each other and that's it.
"pogba's sublime pass in the 20th minute unlocked germany's defence, allowing lucas hernandez to drive in a cross that hummels turned into his own net.
he earned the star of the match award for his display but knows how lucky he is to play alongside n'golo kante.
the 28-year-old delivered several other moments of quality as the link between france's midfield and the dream attacking trident of antoine griezmann, kylian mbappe and karim benzema.
but it was chelsea's kante, 30, who knitted it together.
when required as a defensive shield in the second half, as germany tried to build some momentum, he was immense.
pogba's manchester united career has spluttered at times, yet when playing for france alongside kante, he looks like a world-beater.
in the 28 games they have started together, les blues have won 22, drawn six and lost none.
0france have not lost their opening game (w6 d3) since the inaugural european championship in 1960.
0defeats for les blues in the 28 matches (w22 d6) that paul pogba and n'golo kante have started together.
"pogba was absolutely immense tonight," france's euro 2000 winner robert pires said.
"we know all about his technique.
he's back to his best, physically.
"for germany, there is much to ponder for low.
his strategy to strengthen his flanks in his 3-4-3 formation with robin gosens and joshua kimmich up in midfield only partially paid off.
dangerous gaps opened at the back when they tried to support the attacking game and could not return quick enough as part of a five-man back row.
the midfield duo of toni kroos and ilkay gundogan, bogged down by defensive tasks, also failed to provide sufficient support for the front line.
kimmich, an established defensive midfielder at bayern munich, was then forced to play in right back due to the lightning pace of mbappe, allowing france's midfield to dominate with one less german in the middle of the park.
germany also looked toothless in attack with thomas muller failing to gel with kai havertz and serge gnabry.
but low believes he can rectify the problems.
"we still have two games and we can fix it," he said.
"we tried to play from the wings.
we knew they were crowded in the middle and were tough on the one-on-ones.
so we had to operate with crosses.
but we lacked the final punch in and around the box.
"there was also pre-match drama on the pitch as police in munich said yesterday they were investigating a greenpeace activist who parachuted into the stadium before kick-off, injuring two people.
the activist flew into the stadium strapped to a yellow parachute microlight and apparently got tangled in overhead camera wires.
he was thrown off course and narrowly avoided crashing into the stands before landing on the pitch among the players.
the pilot, identified as a 38-year-old from germany's baden-wurttemberg state, was detained by police.
reuters, xinhuajoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
baku (afp) aaron ramsey and connor roberts scored as wales took a huge step towards reaching the last 16 at euro 2020 with a 2-0 win over turkey in baku on wednesday (june 16).
wales, semi-finalists five years ago, moved top of group a before italy host switzerland later in the day in rome.
captain gareth bale missed a penalty before setting up roberts for his goal during injury time.
"we've given ourselves a brilliant opportunity tonight," ramsey told the bbc.
"it (the penalty) was a big moment in the game but we dug in, to a man we left everything out there.
that's what we've built our success on.
"turkey are facing an uphill challenge to reach the knockout stage after losing their first two group a matches without scoring.
"this seems to be a difficult qualification for us now," turkey coach senol gunes admitted.
"tonight wales had a good start but we've found our tempo and we've balanced the game after.
we had many chances but couldn't find the equaliser.
"gunes dropped juventus defender merih demiral after he scored an own goal in friday's tournament-opening defeat in italy.
robert page kept the same wales side from saturday's 1-1 draw with switzerland in baku.
a pro-turkish crowd was expected due to the close links between ankara and baku, solidified by turkey's support of azerbaijan in last year's conflict in nagorno-karabakh.
every early wales touch was welcomed with whistles from the 30,000 crowd, with up to 4,000 turkish fans having travelled, including president recep tayyip erdogan.
in a very open first half an hour, both sides had very good chances to open the scoring including turkey skipper burak yilmaz, whose effort was deflected out for a corner, and wales' ramsey.
with opportunities at both ends as the two teams refused to sit back, the crescent stars had two efforts blocked by last-gasp defending on the 30-minute mark.
with two minutes of the half remaining the vocal 'home' support were stunned into silence by ramsey's opener.
bale found ramsey free in the box and the juventus man chested the ball down before side-footing coolly past ugurcan cakir, making amends for missing two glorious earlier chances.
the muted crowd rediscovered their voices after the interval as turkey pressed forward for an equaliser, their best chance falling to yilmaz who sent his volley from close range high into the stands.
the game remained open going into the final 30 minutes and ramsey was just stopped from adding a second as cakir blocked with his foot, before bale had an opportunity to seal the three points.
he charged into the box and was tripped by zeki celik but the one-time most expensive player in the world fired his penalty over the crossbar.
page brought ethan ampadu on for the tiring joe allen, one of just two players remaining from the starting team in the semi-final defeat by portugal in 2016, with a quarter of an hour left, before gunes sent on halil dervisoglu to partner yilmaz up front.
turkey, who were knocked out of the group stage in france at the previous tournament, applied incessant pressure in the closing moments.
with three minutes left, demiral had a golden chance but his free header from a hakan calhanoglu corner was brilliantly saved by wales goalkeeper danny ward.
a scuffle broke out in the wales box at the start of injury time after a collision on the floor and ben davies, chris mepham and yilmaz were shown yellow cards before page's men grabbed a second goal.
bale powered into the box from a short corner, found roberts and the swansea right-back claimed his second international goal to send the 400 wales fans into wild celebrations behind the goal.
turkey face switzerland in the azeri capital on sunday while wales head to rome at the same time.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
baku: gareth bale skied a penalty over the bar, and extended his international goal drought to 13 games, but in every other respect his contribution towales' 2-0 group a defeat of turkeyat euro 2020 on wednesday (jun 16) was immense.
the goals may not be flowing but the captain was the provider who set up aaron ramsey and connor roberts with the sort of precision passing and persistence that made all the difference.
it would be easy to characterise wales as a team who rely heavily on the real madrid winger, however much of a shift they all put in, but bale's link up play with ramsey and his vision stood out.
"it's unfortunate, but what he did show was character after it," wales manager rob page said of the shocking penalty miss in baku.
"everybody's going to make mistakes, everybody's going to miss chances.
ok, he missed a penalty.
so what?
"he got on with it.
he's got man of the match tonight.
he plays a massive part as a captain and he's a big, big part of what we want to do.
"when juventus midfielder ramsey scored the 42nd minute opener it was the third great chance he had been fed through by bale.
roberts' extra time icing on the cake came after bale dribbled along the byline and then slipped the ball through at an angle.
barely 10 minutes into the match he had cleared away a corner in the welsh area and then secured one at the other end on the counter-attack.
his shots on goal, like the penalty that he won, came to nothing.
turkey had 56 per cent of the ball, more attempts on goal and completed way more passes but were vulnerable in defence and, despite welsh nerves, offered little real threat on the attack.
they had the crowd in baku but have yet to score a point.
possession has never been a secret of wales' success, their players lifted by a strong and indefatigable sense of team spirit.
in ramsey and bale, the euro 2016 semi-finalists have two players who can stand with the best but wales are much more than that as a unit and their fans will be dreaming of another mazy run in the knockout stages.
"we're not little wales, we're not viewed like that any more," said former wales striker and manager mark hughes, in the bbc studio as a pundit, after a game that left them with four points from two games.
italy, who beat turkey 3-0, are still to come in the final game of the group but wednesday's performance will give wales plenty of belief that they can take something away from it.
"i thought that first half today was superb," said ramsey.
"to a man we created so many opportunities and we really dominated the play.
"second half we showed great character, we dug in and i thought we thoroughly deserved the win at the end.
.
.
what we've built our success on over the last few years is really working hard for each other and we showed it again tonight.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

chris shaw

@__chrisshaw


                                    xherdan shaqiri, harry wilson and neco williams were involved in euro 2020 matches on wednesday as group a continued.
wilson was an 85th-minute substitute and williams entered the action deep into stoppage time for wales against turkey in baku.
goals from aaron ramsey and connor roberts secured a 2-0 win for wales, who are now second in the section with four points from their two fixtures so far.
on-loan ozan kabak remained on the bench for a turkey side at the foot of the table after back-to-back defeats at the tournament.
shaqiri, meanwhile, started for switzerland in their 3-0 defeat by italy at the stadio olimpico.
the liverpool attacker played 75 minutes of the tie, which saw manuel locatelli (two) and ciro immobile net for the hosts.
group a concludes on sunday afternoon as wales tackle italy and switzerland meet turkey.
date published: wednesday 16th june 2021 1:11               teamtalk staff antonio rudiger has denied biting paul pogba during france's 1-0 euro 2020 win over germany.
the germany defender appeared to make contact with his mouth on france midfielder pogba's back in tuesday's group f opener.
manchester united man pogba initially reacted in shock, but later insisted rudiger should face no punishment.
rudiger has now moved to clarify the situation, insisting he did not bite pogba, and the chelsea defender is understood to harbour regrets over the incident.
"i should not come close with my mouth to his back, no doubt about it," rudiger said.
"it looks unfortunate.
paul and i have talked about it as friends after the final whistle.
"referee carlos del cerro grande and his team of officials took no action during the munich encounter, and pogba quickly insisted after the match that he agreed with that stance.
"i'm not crying for cards, yellow, red cards, because of such actions," said pogba.
antonio rudiger appeared to bite paul pogba during germany vs.  france 👀 pic.
twitter.
com/ywhzhlanhc— espn uk (@espnuk) june 15, 2021"he nibbled, i think, a little bit on me.
but we have known each other for a long time.
"i told the referee and he takes decisions and he took a decision.
it's over.
"it was a great match for us, and i didn't want him to be suspended because of such a situation.
"it was towards the end of the match.
we hugged each other and that's it.
"reigning world champions france got their campaign off to a positive start thanks to an own goal from germany defender mats hummels.
kylian mbappe and karim benzema both saw strikes chalked off for offside and adrien rabiot struck the outside of a post as les bleus pushed for a second.
thomas muller, ilkay gundogan and serge gnabry could not capitalise on openings for germany in an engaging contest.
meanwhile, the impressive display of pogba had both roy keane and patrick vieira purring – but the pair are in total agreement over what the player lacks while playing for manchester united.
pogba was at his marauding best for les bleus as they opened their account with a 1-0 win over germany in munich.
he put in an all-action display in the centre of the park as didier deschamps side collected all three points.
and pogba played his part in the winner, feeding a sumptuous pass out to lucas hernandez, whose cross was turned into his own net by mats hummels.
pogba has now been back at united for five years.
his £89.
2m move in summer 2017 remains a club-record fee for the red devils.
rarely in that time though has pogba shown his true colours on a regular basis.
yes, there have been patches of brilliance, but united fans will feel it's not been seen enough.
and ahead of tuesday's game, old foes keane and vieira were proved right as they revealed his biggest failure for united.
and keane insisted he is still not satisfied with pogba's performances and lack of leadership at old trafford.
"listen, we keep talking about paul pogba, he's no doubt a talented boy," keane said on itv sport.
"i still want more from him, particularly when he's playing for man united.
"no doubt he's surrounded probably by better players [with france] and he's more comfortable in that environment, on the left-hand side slotting in.
subscribe for free to teamtalk's daily newsletter.
.
.
"a talented player but for me i just want more, particularly when he's playing for man united.
"but he'd still have, no doubt, an impact on this competition.
"vieira said: "[in france] there is a question about the performance that he has with manchester [united] and the one obviously with the french national team is much, much better.
"i think there may be a system where he's maybe feeling more comfortable in the french system than in manchester.
"but obviously he's a leader, he is an important player.
so when he's in manchester he has to take responsibility.
"keane interrupted, saying: "he doesn't show that, patrick, at united, at club level.
he hasn't shown leadership skills.
"he's probably more comfortable no doubt in that environment [with france].
"but at united he's been there previously, that's the frustration.
"read more: sir alex delivers sancho verdict as murtough relents to leave transfer close italy manager roberto mancini indirectly fired a warning to every team at euro 2020 after highlighting.
.
.
manuel locatelli scored twice in the same game for the first time in his career at.
.
.
england playmaker jack grealish is desperate to play against scotland and prove to europe how good.
.
.
wales boss rob page hailed a star who "can't even get in a championship side," while.
.
.
gareth bale made european championship history with his performance for wales on wednesday.
the winger was integral to his side's 2-0 win against turkey as he registered two assists in the euro 2020 clash to compensate for the penalty he missed.
bale first set up aaron ramsey for the opening goal late in the first half and then gave connor roberts an easy finish in the dying seconds of the match.
wales could have won by an even bigger margin thanks to the threat bale posed.
the 31-year-old made five clear-cut chances during the match in baku.
gareth bale created five clear-cut chances for wales in their euro 2020 win over turkey this evening the first player in recorded euro history (since 1980) to create this many in a match.
this was a top performance from wales, so we look at the stats.
#wal #tur #euro2020 ⬇️he is the first player to create so many big chances in a single match at a european championship since 1980, according to opta.
wales are almost guaranteed a place in the next round of the competition after getting their first victory.
they are now on four points from two matches, having drawn 1-1 with switzerland earlier in the week.
wales will round off the group stage with a match against italy on sunday.
the winners of their group will face the team that finishes second in group c consisting of austria, netherlands, north macedonia and ukraine.
the runners-up of group a will take on the team that finishes second in group b, which has belgium, denmark, finland and russia.
manuel locatelli bagged a brace of goals for the first time in his career as imperious italy defeated switzerland 3-0 at the stadio olimpico on thursday morning (june 17, singapore time) to become the first side to reach the last 16 of euro 2020. midfielder locatelli started and finished the move from which he opened the scoring, netting from close range following sassuolo teammate domenico berardi's excellent run down the right wing.
he then rifled a shot into the bottom corner of the net from the edge of the box early in the second half.
ciro immobile added a late third to secure back-to-back 3-0 wins for italy in the tournament, which extends their unbeaten run to 29 games, the last 10 of which have been victories where they have scored 31 goals and conceded none.
italy, who beat turkey in their opener, lead group a with six points after two rounds of matches and are ahead of wales (four), switzerland (one) and turkey (zero).
they can seal top spot with a draw in their final group game against wales on sunday when the swiss face turkey.
"we won the game thinking we wanted to win it at all costs," italy coach roberto mancini said.
"it was a very tough match.
we could have scored a second goal a bit earlier.
we suffered when we had to suffer but in the end it's a well-deserved victory.
""it was the second game in five days and the boys have worked a lot.
we could have sealed it earlier but we stayed patient.
"the italians outclassed their opponents and delighted the home crowd who have now seen their side score three times in a european championship match for the second game in a row having never done so previously.
italy skipper giorgio chiellini, making his 14th european championship appearance, more than any other outfield player for italy, thought he had scored when he powered past two defenders to fire in from close range only for his effort to be ruled out for handball.
the italians were not to be denied, however, even after chiellini went off injured, with locatelli launching a move with a brilliant pass and then finishing it off after berardi had cut in from the right in the 26th minute.
the swiss pressed high after the break in search of an equaliser but it was italy who scored again with locatelli rifling in from the edge of the box for his second goal of the evening.
"two goals for a midfielder are not easy at all and not a given," mancini said.
"manuel played a great match.
his action in the first goal was great.
"italy goalkeeper gianluigi donnarumma stopped a double effort from steven zuber in the 64th minute to protect their flawless record over the last 10 games, before immobile twice fired narrowly wide.
the italy striker did get onto the scoresheet in the 89th minute, however, thumping in his shot from 20 metres to beat goalkeeper yann sommer.
switzerland have now won none of their last nine matches against italy and last beat their neighbours 28 years ago.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now

italy face switzerland in the second game of the euro 2020 tournament.
an interesting encounter between two strong national teams and geographical neighbours.
italy are quoted by bookmakers as the big favourite, which is no surprise given the squadra's winning streak.
however, it should be noted that italy have been unable to beat switzerland since 2003, i. e.  for 18 years.
the last time italy failed to win and concede a goal was in october 2020, against the netherlands in the nations league.
since then, the squadra azzurra have played nine games in two tournaments and friendlies and achieved nine victories.
including, the italians have been stronger already in the framework of euro 2020 against turkey.
the score of the match was 3-0, with immobile and insigne scoring the goals for the italians, with demiral scoring the opening goal after a berardi cross ball bounced into the net.
as for the formation, italy played a 4-3-3 against the turks, as they did in their three world cup 2022 qualifying matches, with insigne-immobile-berardi in front.
before the start of euro 2020, switzerland had a 6-match winning streak, including the red crosses beating the bulgarians and the lithuanians in the 2022 world cup qualifiers.
unsurprisingly, switzerland were quoted as favourites to play against the welsh in baku.
however, the dragons put up a good fight against the swiss and drew 1-1, although the red crosses were twice ahead in almost every area.
moreover, the swiss team had a chance to take the lead, even scoring in the 85th minute, but the goal was cancelled due to offside.
the swiss' tactical scheme is not as stable as italy's.
for example, against the lithuanians, the red crosses played 4-4-2, while against the bulgarians they were 3-4-1-2.  against the welsh, petkovic opted for the second option, which was not very successful.
italy are the favourites for the clash.
italy will likely get their 10th successive win over the swiss.
however, there are doubts that italy will leave the field without conceding a goal this time as well.
the swiss team is well-prepared for the euro, and after the draw against wales, the red crosses mustn't lose to italy.
and not to lose to the favourites, the swiss will have to score.
we offer the following betting options: both teams to score for 2.
29, total over 2.
5 for 2.
34, w1 and both to score yes for 3.
94.  all materials on this site are available under license creative commons attribution 4.
0 international.
you must include the name of the author (creator) of the work (material) and the party of attribution, copyright notice, license title, disclaimer notice and link to the material, if provided with the material.
rome: manuel locatelli bagged a brace of goals for the first time in his career as imperious italy defeated switzerland 3-0 at the stadio olimpico on wednesday to become the first side into the last-16 of euro 2020. midfielder locatelli started and finished the move from which he opened the scoring, netting from close range following sassuolo team mate domenico berardi's excellent run down the right wing.
he then rifled a shot into the bottom corner of the net from the edge of the box early in the second half.
ciro immobile added a late third to secure back-to-back 3-0 wins for italy in the tournament, which extends their unbeaten run to 29 games, the last 10 of which have been victories where they have scored 31 goals and conceded none.
italy lead group a with six points after two rounds of matches and are ahead of wales (four), switzerland (one) and turkey (zero).
they can seal top spot with a draw in their final group game against wales on sunday when the swiss face turkey.
the italians outclassed their opponents and delighted the home crowd who have now seen their side score three times in a european championship match for the second game in a row having never done so previously.
italy skipper giorgio chiellini, making his 14th european championship appearance, more than any other outfield player for italy, thought he had scored when he powered past two defenders to fire in from close range only for his effort to be ruled out for handball.
the italians were not to be denied, however, even after chiellini went off injured, with locatelli launching a move with a brilliant pass and then finishing it off after berardi had cut in from the right in the 26th minute.
the swiss pressed high after the break in search of an equaliser but it was italy who scored again with locatelli rifling in from the edge of the box for his second goal of the evening.
italy keeper gianluigi donnarumma stopped a double effort from steven zuber in the 64th minute to protect their flawless record over the last 10 games, before immobile twice fired narrowly wide.
the italy striker did get onto the scoresheet in the 89th, however, thumping in his shot from 20 metres to beat keeper yann sommer.
switzerland have now won none of their last nine matches against italy and last beat their neighbours 28 years ago.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the reds know their schedule for the coming season but are less certain on the amount of fans who will be in attendancesign up to receive the best lfc opinion direct to your inboxtraditionally the day when premier league fixtures are revealed is one of much excitement.
planning away days, pencilling in when you need time off work to make sure you can make those monday night games, seeing just when the merseyside derby appears on the calendar, where you will be heading on boxing day and new year's day, and where you think the spoils will be won and lost during the season.
it all forms part of the truly unique experience of being a football fan.
liverpool fans now know what lies ahead for the season, with the reds beginning what they hope will be a campaign of success with a lengthy trip to norfolk to take on a newly promoted norwich city on saturday, august 14. there is much excitement and anticipation ahead of the new campaign, one where fans have renewed hope of being back in full force and seeing stadiums packed as the country looks to move back to normality after 18 months of the worst healthcare crisis in a century.
but while the sight of fans, albeit limited in number, back in stadiums for euro 2021 is something that has gladdened the heart and made football infinitely more watchable, there is still a question mark over whether everything will be back to normal as far as clubs being able to welcome supporters back to stadiums as the concern over the spread of the delta variant of the coronavirus grows.
the grand reopening of society in the uk that prime minister boris johnson had been aiming for on june 21 was postponed for four weeks, 'freedom day' having to wait for people eager to get back to living their lives without the many restrictions that had been placed upon them to combat the pandemic.
the aim, as stated by the government, is to see a return to a society free of restrictions on july 19, a development that would allow for stadiums to be filled to capacity for the first time since march 2020.  but as this pandemic has shown, it cares little for dates on a calendar, and while liverpool and their rivals have more hope that than at any other stage of the crisis that the end is in sight thanks to the success of the vaccine rollout and the huge uptake in those getting the jab, they will know that they could yet be let down in a big way if things go south.
many reds have already paid for their season tickets in full, keen to get back to the place they love, a place where they have been forced to keep away from for well over a year, a place where their absence has been felt keenly.
it isn't simply about the monetary aspect of what happens, reds fans, like fans up and down the country, want to be back in the ground and cheering on their team because it brings the kind of joy, euphoria and release from the trials and tribulations of everyday life unlike anything else.
it is good for the mind and the soul for the most part anyway.
as football fans we watched last season from afar.
we were still emotionally invested in what was happening on the pitch, but a fraction of how it felt in normal times.
much was done to try and dress up the spectacle of a football match played in front of an empty stadium, but the experience was a surreal, unorthodox and somewhat unfulfilling one.
it hammered home just how much fans are required to make football have a beating heart.
it had to be done, though, and despite the financial impact that has been felt by clubs across the globe, football did continue.
it did muddle through.
but with so many vaccinated and the vaccines seemingly having the desired effect, after so long having to comply and conform to a new way of life, so restrictive on our ability to enjoy those things we took for granted, many fans feel more emboldened to get back to doing what they love.
and while there are no certainties where this pandemic is concerned, the aim from the premier league is still to be seeing full stadiums when the premier league season kicks off in august, and that includes a sea of red in the away end at carrow road on the opening day.
a premier league statement read: "the premier league has announced that it and its clubs are committed to the ambition of having full stadiums, including away supporters, from the start of the season, and will continue to work closely with government and all relevant authorities, ensuring operational plans are in place ready to safely welcome supporters back to stadiums in august".
for liverpool and owners fenway sports group, a full anfield is very much a want and a need.
matchday revenue for 2020/21 will be virtually nil when the 2021 accounts are published early next year by the reds.
in 2019 the matchday revenue for the year was £84m, in 2020 it was £71m as three months of the season were lost.
it is not a trend that can continue indefinitely for the reds and others, especially when it also has a knock on effect on commercial deals.
for football to bounce back it needs fans more than ever.
and after the failed attempt at the european super league that demonstrated the importance of fans having a voice, fans deserve the chance for that voice to be channelled into supporting what happens on the pitch.
that is why we are all here after all.
the government line remains the same.
there will be a review on progress on july 5, but even the most optimistic would be hard pushed to think that will bring forward any relaxation in restrictions.
in march 2020 we were told '12 weeks to flatten the curve'.
here we are in mid-june and we are still wrangling with the pandemic.
there is a route out, a clear one, but pinning hopes on dates on a calendar has seen them dashed before now.
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountfrance midfielder paul pogba has played down antonio ruediger's apparent attempted bite on his back during the world champions' euro 2020 win over germany.
television replays showed chelsea defender ruediger putting his mouth on pogba's shoulder just before half-time in france's 1-0 win over germany in munich on tuesday.
immediately after the incident, pogba cried out and complained to spanish referee carlos del cerro grande, who did not punish the german, and the manchester united star played it down after the game.
"i think he nibbled at me a little bit, but we've known each other for a long time.
toni and i are friends.
it was nothing big.
we hugged after the game and it's over," pogba said.
pogba, the man of the match in munich, said it was "better" that ruediger escaped punishment.
"i don't want him to be suspended because of that," said the frenchman, who played a key role in the build-up to mats hummels' ultimately decisive own goal.
pogba said he told the referee what happened but was glad there was no "yellow or red card for such an incident".
in the build-up to the match, champions league winner ruediger had said the germans would need to "be a little dirty" against the french.
© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
date published: wednesday 16th june 2021 10:52               steve pearson italy manager roberto mancini indirectly fired a warning to every team at euro 2020 after highlighting a frequent shortcoming against switzerland.
italy became the first team to book their place in the last 16 at euro 2020 after registering hugely impressive back-to-back 3-0 victories.
manuel locatelli bagged a career first before ciro immobile notched late on in a performance where italy never let up.
give our social media channels a follow – we're on facebook, twitter and instagramtoday's result raised their scarcely believable tally of unanswered goals across all competitions to 31.  additionally, they have now registered 10 successive clean sheets.
speaking after the match (via corriere dello sport), mancini said: "the team played a difficult match, they are good and physical, we struggled at the beginning but then we deservedly won.
we could have closed it earlier but we did well, it wasn't easy.
"on the outstanding performance of locatelli, the ex-man city boss said: "he played a great game.
two goals for a midfielder is not easy, but everyone was good because this was the second game in five days.
match report: imperious italy despatch switzerland as locatelli registers career first"we want to get out of the back to get to the attackers, we often missed the last pass.
the goals were very good and we could have closed the game even earlier.
"allaying fears of a giorgio chiellini layoff after the veteran was substituted early, mancini added: "let's hope it's nothing.
serious, we'll see tomorrow.
"when asked if he views france as the favourites, mancini concluded: "there are national teams that are ahead of us in the work of growth, but in football anything can happen.
this italy can grow, i repeat.
there are many young players, the margins are great. "
speaking on bbc radio 5 live, pundit leon osman labelled italy "outstanding" and insisted others must now take note.
"brilliant performance from italy and they controlled it from start to finish," said the ex-everton midfielder.
"three wonderful goals and they really look like a team that people will have to take notice of.
they played against a decent switzerland side, controlled the game and looked outstanding.
"i really enjoyed watching them and they were full of energy which is great to see in the modern game.
they want to score goals and entertain.
they look impressive from what we've seen so far.
"manuel locatelli scored twice in the same game for the first time in his career at.
.
.
england playmaker jack grealish is desperate to play against scotland and prove to europe how good.
.
.
wales boss rob page hailed a star who "can't even get in a championship side," while.
.
.
gary neville believes gareth southgate has a dilemma concerning injured defender harry maguire ahead of the.
.
.
baku: captain gareth bale inspired a scintillating 2-0 victory for wales over turkey on wednesday (jun 16), giving the dragons a big leap towards the european championship knockout stages and reviving memories of their 2016 run to the semi-finals.
midfielder aaron ramsey missed two early chances, but made no mistake just before halftime when he chested down bale's perfect ball over the defence to slot past the goalkeeper.
wales could have doubled the lead at the hour mark when bale was tripped by zeki celik and awarded a penalty, but the welsh skipper skied his effort after a stuttering run up.
wales were rewarded for their superiority throughout when they scored right at the death as a corner was played short and defender connor roberts was on hand to divert another bale pass past goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
"we fought hard, we worked our socks off like we always do," bale said.
the group a win thrilled the few hundred wales fans outnumbered by turkish supporters at baku's olympic stadium and many more at home who are dreaming of another euros run like their first appearance in the tournament five years ago.
the surprise semi-finalists then, who next play italy, now have four points, after drawing with switzerland in their opener.
turkey, without points, take on the swiss next.
remarkably, wales now have the best winning percentage in the euros' history: 63 per cent or five wins in eight games.
wednesday's man-of-the-match bale twice picked out ramsey before his goal with superb defence-splitting passes.
cakır denied him from a tight angle in the sixth minute and then ramsey thundered a shot over the bar in the 24th.
there was nothing lucky about the third time, though, with bale floating a superbly-timed cross in the 42nd minute for ramsey who brought the ball down perfectly to slot under cakir.
turkey apologeticwith turkish and azeri presidents tayyip erdogan and ilham aliyev in the stands, turkey upped the pace after the break.
captain burak yilmaz, who had missed a good chance in the first half, should have scored 10 minutes after the restart when he was unmarked in front of the welsh goal but blazed a volley from three metres out well over the crossbar.
on the hour, bale was brought down just inside the box to earn a spot kick.
but the 31-year-old's effort flew high and wide to keep the turks in the game.
"it's unfortunate but what he did show was character afterwards," said wales manager rob page.
"everybody makes mistakes.
ok, he missed it, but so what?
he got man of the match!
"the disappointing turks did force a good save from keeper danny ward when he punched a merih demiral header wide in the 87th minute.
but they ran out of steam in stoppage time, allowing bale to cut inside to feed roberts for the second goal.
"i would like to apologise," turkey defender umut meras said.
"we wanted to win so hard tonight but that was not enough.
"turkey coach senol gunes lamented his team could not level the game after going behind but had warm words for wales.
"we had many chances but couldn't find the equaliser.
wales played a good match.
they were effective with their pivot striker and two wingers," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
france 1-0 germany: match statisticsit's taken as something of a given that if france win euro 2020, this year's ballon d'or will go to either n'golo kante or kylian mbappe, and the reasoning is sound.
both men, after all, are coming off the back of extraordinary club campaigns.
yet watching france beat germany in their group f opener on tuesday night, it was hard not to wonder why paul pogba isn't in the mix.
not because he deserves to be because of his form in 2021 to date, but because he should be given his extraordinary talent.
it's now seven years since gianluigi buffon tipped up his then-juventus team-mate as a future ballon d'or winner: "he is one of those players that leaves you open-mouthed.
"he still is, too – he proved that again at allianz arena – yet nobody could claim pogba has been anything close to the best player in world football this year.
the incredibly frustrating thing about pogba is that dominant displays like the one he produced in france's 1-0 win in munich still feel like the exception rather than the rule.
manchester united fans could be forgiven for wondering where on earth this version of pogba was during last month's europa league final loss to villarreal, but then, the 28-year-old has long been a very different player for club and country.
roy keane and patrick vieira, two of the greatest midfielders of the modern era, later debated why this is the case on itv but pogba himself has never made any secret of the fact that he feels better utilised in the international arena than at old trafford.
"in manchester, i have the freedom to go into the box, but the priority is to play, to defend," pogba told l'equipe.
"in the france team, we play a 4-2-3-1 too and i'm a little more involved in the transition, in the construction.
i have more freedom than in manchester to get into the box, to make runs forward.
"against germany, pogba appeared to be everywhere, breaking up play with ferocious force, picking out passes under intense pressure and generally bossing the game with his awesome mix of power and precision.
of course, it's easier to dictate the play when you have n'golo kante alongside you, and the chelsea man had another excellent game – but this was pogba at his very best, turning in one of those ridiculously composed performances in which he reminds everyone of his full repertoire of skills.
from a defensive perspective, he regained possession more than any other player (12 times), while no player won more headers or made more interceptions (three apiece).
offensively, it was he who played the outrageous outside-of-the-boot pass out to lucas hernandez that led to mats hummels' own goal.
unsurprisingly, he was also involved in the build-up to france's two disallowed goals, from kylian mbappe and karim benzema.
he was utterly unplayable at times and it was no coincidence that he was the most fouled player on the pitch, too.
at one point, it even seemed that germany defender antonio rudiger tried to take a bite out of him in a desperate bid to rattle pogba.
there was no chance of that, though.
this was the pogba that used to take buffon's breath away at juventus: excelling in the right role and surrounded by top talent.
there was never any doubt, then, that he would be named man of the match.
whether he will ever be crowned the best player in the world, though, remains unclear.
can united ever really offer him the same freedom as france?
rome: roberto mancini has said it took "the end of the world" for him to become italy coach but his side now appear to be in a brave new world following a classy3-0 win over switzerlandon wednesday that propelled them into the euro 2020 knockouts.
after laying down a marker with a stunning second-half display in their opener to beat turkey 3-0, italy matched that scoreline but produced an even more assured performance.
manuel locatelli was an unlikely figure to give italy the lead in the first half when he started then finished off a sweeping attack down the right wing and then scored again after the break before striker ciro immobile adorned another magical night at the stadio olimpico by netting late on.
locatelli, who had never scored twice in a game before, was the symbol of a side short on household names but bursting with talent which is making its mark at euro 2020 after their miserable failure to qualify for the last world cup.
italy's limp playoff defeat to sweden in november 2017 ensured they failed to reach a world cup for the first time since 1958 and prompted much soul-searching, with coach gian piero ventura painted as the scapegoat and booted out.
mancini, a premier league and serie a winner with manchester city and inter milan but who has often been criticised for being too defensive, was an unlikely figure to lead the revolution the country was crying out for, but he has proved an inspired choice.
italy may have shed their old defence-first persona under previous coaches such as antonio conte, but mancini has taken them to the next level, building a hyper-pressing team that suffocate opponents in their own half.
mancini may have kept faith with seasoned gladiators such as giorgio chiellini and leonardo bonucci, who have a combined age of 70 and were the only survivors of the defeat to sweden who played against switzerland, along with immobile and jorginho.
but his side also sparkles with players boasting courage and athleticism.
their opening goal against switzerland was made by a combination of skill, pace and quick-thinking from domenico berardi down the right flank, beating a swiss defender by the byline before arrowing a low pass at the feet of sassuolo team mate locatelli, who had started the move.
locatelli, who struck again with a deadly strike from outside the area, has performed so well that italy have barely missed their one star name in marco verratti, who was forced to sit out both their opening games due to injury.
berardi was a handful for the swiss down the right wing all game while left back leonardo spinazzola, one of the best players against turkey, was equally dangerous down the other flank, making italy an unpredictable and terrifying side who became the first to book their place in the last 16. no team will look forward to meeting them next.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountwales are readying themselves for a hostile reception when they face turkey in baku at euro 2020 later after tuesday's action saw world champions france beat germany and cristiano ronaldo become the all-time top european championship goal-scorer.
after drawing 1-1 with switzerland in their opening group a game at the weekend, wales face turkey in baku where locals are expected to get behind their turkish neighbours, who will also have several thousand travelling fans on their side.
"hostility is no problem.
this is what we do for a living.
we're used to playing in away games and being in front of hostile crowds," wales captain gareth bale said.
turkey come into the game by the caspian sea desperate to shake off the disappointment of losing 3-0 to italy in the tournament's opening match.
"for two days following the game we were very fragile, we were very broken.
we were really tired and negative," turkey captain burak yilmaz said on tuesday as he looked forward to having the crowd on his side in baku.
"it will be like a host city for us.
with the help of the country we want to win this game.
"impressive in their first outing, and with home advantage in rome, italy can secure a place in the last 16 already with a win over switzerland later on wednesday.
before that russia host neighbours finland in saint petersburg looking for their first points in group b.
© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
italy will take on switzerland at the stadio olimpico in today's euro 2020 evening game, likely to be led out by juventus pair leo bonucci and giorgio chiellini.
the azzurri kicked off their bid to become european champions with an eye-opening performance which each of their rivals will have taken notice of.
turkey were pulled apart from the very start, and made to look more like headless chickens, but it was more how deadly italy were than how bad their rivals were.
the blues are now being considered amongst the favourites to win this competition, and they will confirm their place in the knock-out rounds with a win today, and if wales fail to beat turkey just before we will also be confirmed as group winners.
while we will know their result by the time the match kicks off, we will be concentrated on the match in hand, and they will not be looking to take switzerland lightly.
italy have been forced to make one change from the team that took on turkey on friday, with defender alessandro florenzi absent with a calf injury.
his replacement isn't confirmed as of yet, although the majority of reports claim that rafael toloi will get the nod, while my preference would have been napoli's di lorenzo.
predicted italy xi:donnarumma
toloi  bonucci  chiellini  spinazzola
barella  jorginho  locatelli
berardi  immobile  insignei can't see this team finding much difficulty after their performance last weekend, and securing this win will allow us to make wholesale changes for the final group game, where federico chiesa could well get his chance to stake a claim for a first-team role.
switzerland were marginally the better side against wales, but i don't expect them to get on the scoresheet today, and i'm going for a comfortable 2-0 victory, with immobile adding another goal to his tally.
do you expect the azzurri to pick up where they left off on friday?patrickname * email *  

this site uses akismet to reduce spam.
learn how your comment data is processed.
© 2020 juvefc.
com, trade names and marks juventus, juve and shield device are the exclusive property of juventus | images via getty
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountmanuel locatelli scored a brace and ciro immobile added a late third as italy sealed their place in the euro 2020 last 16 on wednesday with a game to spare after a rampant 3-0 win over switzerland in rome.
sassuolo midfielder locatelli put the azzurri ahead on 26 minutes in the group a clash, adding a second just after the break with immobile scoring for the second consecutive game a minute from time.
roberto mancini's side are top of group a with six points from two games, with six goals scored and none conceded, two points clear of wales who beat turkey 2-0 earlier.
"the matches are all difficult, some may seem simpler but they are always to be played and to be won," said mancini.
"switzerland are a strong team.
it was a very hard game.
we could have scored earlier, but in the end it is a well-deserved victory.
"italy will advance as group a winners if they avoid defeat against surprise euro 2016 semi-finalists wales at the stadio olimpico on sunday.
"up to now the lads have been good but the road is long," mancini added.
"there are national teams that are ahead of us in the work of growth, but in football anything can happen.
"switzerland will likely have to beat turkey in baku this weekend to have a chance of reaching the knockout phase.
"everyone deserves to be disappointed tonight, but tomorrow from the first training session we move on," said swiss coach vladimir petkovic.
"i spoke to the team and told them there's a match left, and three points could get us to the next round.
"the only bad news for the italians in a game they dominated was the loss of captain giorgio chiellini who hobbled off the pitch with a muscle injury in the first half.
the 36-year-old juventus defender had a 20th-minute goal ruled out for handball by var and four minutes later asked to be replaced, holding his thigh.
"we hope that there is nothing serious, we will see tomorrow," said mancini.
lazio defender francesco acerbi took his place, making his debut in a major international tournament at the age of 33, with the captain's armband handed to juventus teammate leonardo bonucci.
italy gave the swiss no space in another commanding display, having beaten turkey 3-0 five days ago in rome.
record run in sight lazio forward immobile once again led italy's three-man attack, flanked by wingers lorenzo insigne and domenico berardi.
immobile missed several chances to add to his tally, sending a header over the bar early from a leonardo spinazzola cross.
after chiellini's exit, locatelli started the move which reaped the opener, combining with sassuolo teammate berardi, who weaved into the area and steered across for the former to the finish off.
swiss keeper yann sommer denied immobile and an insigne follow-up was cleared off the line after half an hour.
another well worked move resulted in italy's second goal, nicolo barella teeing up locatelli to drive in from 20 yards.
locatelli, who has taken the place of injured marco verratti, brings his tally to three goals in 12 appearances for italy since making his debut last september.
"i hope very much that marco will be able to come back, he's a very strong player who makes the difference," said locatelli.
"but i'm proud to be part of an incredible group and happy to be here.
"let it continue!
"switzerland had few chances with liverpool's xherdan shaqiri blasting over after an hour, while italy goalkeeper gianluigi donnarumma kept out their best effort from steven zuber minutes later.
for italy it was a 10th consecutive win with a clean sheet, extending their unbeaten run to 29 matches since september 2018 -- just after failing to qualify for the last world cup.
italy have now scored two goals or more in each of their last 10 international matches.
mancini meanwhile moves within one game of italy's two-time world cup-winning coach vittorio pozzo's record of 30 unbeaten games between 1935 and 1939.
© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
france midfielder paul pogba said antonio ruediger "nibbled" at his back during the world champions' win over germany in their euro 2020 opener yesterday morning (singapore time), but sought to play down the incident after the game.
television replays showed german defender ruediger putting his mouth on pogba's shoulder just before half-time at the allianz arena in munich.
pogba cried out immediately and complained to spanish referee carlos del cerro grande, who did not punish the german.
"i think he nibbled at me a little bit, but we've known each other for a long time.
toni and i are friends.
it was nothing big.
we hugged after the game and it's over," pogba said.
the manchester united midfielder said it was "better" that no punishment was meted out to the chelsea centre-back.
"i don't want him to be suspended because of that," said the 28-year-old, adding that he was glad there was no "yellow or red card for such an incident".
pogba, the star of the match, delivered several moments of quality as the link between midfield and the attacking trident of antoine griezmann, kylian mbappe and karim benzema.
it was his sublime pass in the 20th minute that unlocked germany's defence, allowing left-back lucas hernandez to drive in a cross that mats hummels turned into his own net.
"pogba was absolutely immense tonight," france's euro 2000 winner robert pires told uefa's website.
"we know all about his technique.
he's back to his best, physically.
"france coach didier deschamps was happy with his team's commitment, but said they must improve on their 40 per cent possession.
while it was not a five-star display, les bleus won with something to spare as both benzema and mbappe had goals ruled out for offside.
as france's much-vaunted attack gets all the attention, former united skipper roy keane believes their defence should get some praise too.
"we spent all night talking about france's attacking players, but again another clean sheet," keane told itv sport.
"that's a defence that can win them the title.
they are brilliant at the back. "
afp, reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
european champions portugal got their title defence off to a winning start thanks to a flurry of late goals in a 3-0 win over hungary at a packed ferenc puskas stadium in budapest this morning (singapore time).
cristiano ronaldo, who made history by becoming the first player to appear in five european championships, converted an 87th-minute penalty and scored another goal in the second minute of added time.
in the process, he became the all-time top scorer in the tournament's history with 11 goals.
the group f game seemed to be heading for a draw before raphael guerreiro's shot took a deflection and trickled past hungary goalkeeper peter gulacsi six minutes from time.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
budapest, hungary: some people doubted whether, after a long and arduous season, 36-year-old cristiano ronaldo could still produce the goods for his country, but afterportugal's 3-0 win over hungaryin their euro 2020 opener on tuesday, the doubters have their answer.
portugal, the champions in 2016, came into the rearranged tournament as one of the favourites given the attacking talent at coach fernando santos' disposal.
bruno fernandes has enjoyed a prolific season at manchester united and is already one of the club's most crucial players; diogo jota has hit the ground running at liverpool; and bernardo silva played a crucial part in manchester city's premier league title win.
but as the premier league trio flattered to deceive in front of a packed, boisterous crowd in budapest, and hungary's defence stood firm, portugal again needed their relentless talisman to pull them through.
he left it late, but he did not disappoint.
it was also a case of another day, another record for ronaldo.
the penalty he converted to put portugal 2-0 up in the 87th minute ensured he became the first player in european championship finals history to reach 10 goals overall, and then 11 with an injury-time strike, overtaking michel platini's record of nine all scored in the 1984 tournament.
it had looked as though it was going to be a frustrating evening for the juventus forward.
he missed a glorious chance in the first half to open the scoring, with his team mates also lacking composure in front of goal.
jota has now scored one goal in his last 11 matches for club and country, and was replaced in the second half, with the effects of his injury-hit season clear for all to see.
but after portugal's fortunate opener six minutes from time, it was all about ronaldo, who added a coolly taken third 177 seconds after firing home from the penalty spot.
the way in which he remained calm before rounding the goalkeeper for his second of the night proved that even when not at his best, his potency in front of goal, when it matters, remains as lethal as ever.
that is now 106 international goals for the veteran, three off the all-time record set by iran's ali daei.
the desire for more goals and records remains stronger than ever.
after this imposing start to the tournament, few would bet against ronaldo surpassing daei and adding one more accolade to his ever-growing list before euro 2020 is out.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
budapest: cristiano ronaldo struck a late double to help holders portugal get off to a winning start with a 3-0 victory over hungary in front of a 67,000 crowd on tuesday (jun 15) as the forward became the all-time leading scorer at european championship finals.
hungary rode a wave of early pressure from portugal in the group f clash and had a goal ruled out for offside shortly before portugal's raphael guerreiro broke the deadlock at the other end with a deflected effort in the 84th minute.
captain ronaldo sealed the win by lashing home from the penalty spot in the 87th to move ahead of michel platini as the all-time top scorer at the finals on 10 goals, which he quickly turned into 11 by dribbling the ball into the net in added time.
"it was a very difficult game but we got three goals.
it was vital to win and start the tournament with confidence and now we want to keep on winning," said ronaldo.
portugal coach fernando santos added: "if we'd scored earlier it would have been easier for us.
we missed a few chances then had some anxious moments but found our composure again and finished the game well.
"the two sides had drawn 3-3 in one of the best games of euro 2016 and although there were fewer goals this time around the match was no less compelling as the vociferous locals filled the puskas arena to capacity.
the action on the pitch mirrored the fervour in the stands as portugal played with real intensity, playing a direct game and hitting their front three with quick, long passes.
diogo jota had the first clear sight of goal when he thumped a shot which was parried by keeper peter gulacsi, incurring the wrath of a furious ronaldo who was in a better place to shoot.
ronaldo missronaldo was left only blaming himself late in the first half though when he uncharacteristically missed the target from close range after an incisive cross from bruno fernandes.
striker adam szalai was hungary's main threat, heading a free kick into the arms of rui patricio shortly before halftime then testing the keeper again early in the second half.
portugal's veteran defender pepe nearly scored at the start of the second half but was thwarted by the ever-alert gulacsi, who later turned away a strike from fernandes.
hungary substitute szabolcs schon set the stadium alight in the 80th minute when his shot squirmed past patricio but the linesman's flag was quickly raised to puncture the celebrations.
guerreiro soon brought the hosts more pain as his scuffed shot trickled into the far corner of the net off the foot of hungary defender willi orban, who moments later fouled rafa silva to allow ronaldo to score from the spot.
ronaldo then combined with silva to calmly dance past gulacsi and round off a day of records after also becoming the only player to feature in five european championships and to play the most games at the finals.
the noisy locals and a sizeable travelling portugal support made for a raucous atmosphere barely seen at any football game since the novel coronavirus pandemic struck in march 2020 and forced matches behind closed doors.
hungary recorded the most deaths per capita in the world, according to johns hopkins university data, but football-mad prime minister viktor orban was intent on filling the shiny new stadium, which opened in 2019, as he seeks to boost his popularity ahead of next year's election.
orban, who was at the game, has channelled billions of euros in state funds to upgrade an ageing football infrastructure and incurred widespread criticism for prioritising football over healthcare funds, particularly as the pandemic raged.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
france star paul pogba has said he forgives germany defender antonio rudiger for nibbling at his back during tuesday's euro 2020 match and does not want his friend to be suspended.
the two players came together near the end of the first half, with replays showing the chelsea man putting his face close to pogba's back before reaching his arms around his chest.
pogba protested to the referee but there was no call on the field, nor was there a var review.
"we're friends," pogba said.
"this was nothing big.
i think you saw the tv pictures, this is all over, this belongs to the past.
"i'm not crying for yellow or red cards for such actions.
he nibbled, i think, a little bit on me.
"we've known each other for a long time.
"i felt it, i told the referee, he takes the decisions and he took the decision.
he hasn't received any card and i think it's better like this.
i don't want him to be suspended because of this.
"the incident generated plenty of reaction on social media, with more than a few people bringing up another man involved in past biting incidents, luis suarez.
what is rudiger doing 😳 pic.
twitter.
com/gsmyyblyz1antonio rudiger appeared to bite paul pogba during germany vs.  france 👀 pic.
twitter.
com/ywhzhlanhcrudiger bit pogba, no?how did he get away with that 😂😂interesting first half for tony rudiger: helps out green peace activist who crash landed into stadium and then accused of biting/nibbling pogbarudiger has done a suarez on pogba 😭🤣😭 #frager pic.
twitter.
com/zokzeocjgkwhat's happened there between rudiger and pogba?!
🧐#frager | #itvfootball | #euro2020 pic.
twitter.
com/oi2mm7rv7zsuarez watching rudiger bite paul pogba.
#fra #euro2020 pic.
twitter.
com/j1nujhqvz0rudiger bit pogba's shoulder like they were halfway through a netflix show and it was getting late in the nightrudiger when he saw pogba at kick off pic.
twitter.
com/nyewmleqknthe day rudiger was infected😂#euro2020 #gerfra pic.
twitter.
com/updrrvzbbirudiger out there recreating titanic pose with pogba😭😭 pic.
twitter.
com/08l2pn0ns1on itv at half-time, former france star patrick vieira said: "when you see pogba's reaction, it felt like a bite.
i don't see what rudiger was doing there. "
roy keane replied: "it was more of a nibble than a bite.
"parachuting protestor nearly crashes into fans ahead of france v germany matchmbappe insists giroud spat is already 'forgotten'i was expected to be the new ronaldo havertz
munich: france midfielder paul pogba earned the star of the match award for his display in the world champions' 1-0 win over germany in their euro 2020 group f opener on tuesday but knows how lucky he is to play alongside n'golo kante.
powerhouse pogba's sublime pass in the 20th minute unlocked germany's defence, allowing lucas hernandez to drive in a cross that germany's mats hummels turned into his own net.
pogba, 28, delivered several other moments of quality as the link between france's midfield and the dream attacking trident of antoine griezmann, kylian mbappe and karim benzema.
adrien rabiot was also a disciplined presence in didier deschamps' midfield that was ultimately far too crafty for a german side that looked short of cohesion.
but it was chelsea's kante, who at the age of 30 appears to be elevating his games to new levels, who knitted it together.
a few weeks after his masterful display helped chelsea overcome favourites manchester city in the champions league final, kante again showed that he remains the beating heart of world champions france.
when required as a defensive shield in the second half, as germany tried to build some momentum, kante was immense.
almost inevitably, kante was also in close proximity whenever france turned over possession using the ball efficiently and with no little vision.
pogba's manchester united career has spluttered at times, yet when playing for france, kante's influence rubs off on him to such an extent that he looks like a world-beater.
in the 28 games he has started for france with kante, les blues have won 22, drawn six and lost none.
"pogba was absolutely immense tonight," france's euro 2000 winner robert pires told uefa's website.
"we know all about his technique.
he's back to his best, physically.
"pogba's words after the game would have been music to the ears of deschamps, as he attempts to add the european crown to the world cup his side won in russia in 2018.
"we know we need to live up to our tag as world champions and come out on to the pitch with humility," pogba said.
"when we need to suffer, we do it together and when we attack, we do it together," added the midfielder, who said this week how much of an honour it was to play alongside kante.
eight of france's starting team against germany played in the 2018 world cup final win over croatia and, while it was not a five-star display, they won with something to spare as both benzema and mbappe had goals ruled out for offside.
those looking for weaknesses were left disappointed as france's unbeaten run in competitive matches reached 17.
"we spent all night talking about france's attacking players, but again another clean sheet," former manchester united skipper roy keane told itv sport.
"that's a defence that can win them the title.
they are brilliant at the back.
"for germany, a first defeat in the opening match of a european championship gives coach joachim loew much to ponder.
they looked toothless in attack with the returning thomas mueller failing to gel with kai havertz and serge gnabry.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
munich, germany (reuters) title favourites france launched their euro 2020 group f campaign with a 1-0 victory over germany on tuesday (june 15), courtesy of an own goal by mats hummels, as the sluggish-looking hosts lost their opening fixture at the european championship for the first time.
the world champions went ahead in the 20th minute when midfielder paul pogba's raking pass was fired back across the goal by lucas hernandez and defender hummels shanked the ball into his own net as he tried to clear it.
it was a deserved win for france, who also hit the crossbar while the germans now have to up their game against holders portugal on saturday, while france play hungary.
"it was our first match and it was a huge game," said france coach didier deschamps.
"it could have been a semi-final or a final.
but we have the three points that will be very important.
"they are tough to play against but we were there, on the spot.
this win does a lot of good. "
germany's record 50th euro match got off to a tentative start before a couple of french chances fell to pogba and kylian mbappe.
the visitors' gradual pressure paid off when pogba launched an outstanding cross-field pass to hernandez, who cut the ball back only for hummels, who had been dropped more than two years ago and was recalled for the tournament, to clip it into the roof of the net past his own goalkeeper manuel neuer.
the germans were desperate to impress in front of a home crowd to make amends for their shock 2018 world cup first-round exit, but instead they rarely broke through the french rearguard.
when they did it was usually with robin gosens from the left, and one of his crosses found ilkay gundogan, whose shot veered wide of the post.
it was france who almost scored again in the 52nd when another quick break saw adrien rabiot cut in from the left but he hit the post with neuer already moving in the opposite direction.
that looked to shake the hosts into action, and they carved out three consecutive chances, with gosens again in the mix, until an injury to benjamin pavard around the hour mark gave the french some much-needed respite.
france gradually conceded possession but remained lethal on the break with mbappe and karim benzema both putting the ball in the net but having their efforts ruled offside.
mbappe was also denied what looked like a penalty after out-sprinting hummels to chase down a long ball in the 78th minute, but replays showed the german got just enough boot to the ball to prevent a shot before mbappe went to ground.
"it was a brutally intense game and we fought until the end," germany coach joachim loew said.
"an own goal decided it.
i cannot blame the team because we fought a lot.
we maybe lacked a bit of punching power in and around the box.
"tomorrow, we have to process things but look ahead.
we lost, we are disappointed, but we still have two games and we can fix it.
"france, unbeaten in their last 17 competitive outings, are second in group f behind holders portugal, who beat hungary 3-0 earlier on tuesday.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
france 1-0 germany: match statisticsit's taken as something of a given that if france win euro 2020, this year's ballon d'or will go to either n'golo kante or kylian mbappe, and the reasoning is sound.
both men, after all, are coming off the back of extraordinary club campaigns.
yet watching france beat germany in their group f opener on tuesday night, it was hard not to wonder why paul pogba isn't in the mix.
not because he deserves to be because of his form in 2021 to date, but because he should be given his extraordinary talent.
it's now seven years since gianluigi buffon tipped up his then-juventus team-mate as a future ballon d'or winner: "he is one of those players that leaves you open-mouthed.
"he still is, too – he proved that again at allianz arena – yet nobody could claim pogba has been anything close to the best player in world football this year.
the incredibly frustrating thing about pogba is that dominant displays like the one he produced in france's 1-0 win in munich still feel like the exception rather than the rule.
manchester united fans could be forgiven for wondering where on earth this version of pogba was during last month's europa league final loss to villarreal, but then, the 28-year-old has long been a very different player for club and country.
roy keane and patrick vieira, two of the greatest midfielders of the modern era, later debated why this is the case on itv but pogba himself has never made any secret of the fact that he feels better utilised in the international arena than at old trafford.
"in manchester, i have the freedom to go into the box, but the priority is to play, to defend," pogba told l'equipe.
"in the france team, we play a 4-2-3-1 too and i'm a little more involved in the transition, in the construction.
i have more freedom than in manchester to get into the box, to make runs forward.
"against germany, pogba appeared to be everywhere, breaking up play with ferocious force, picking out passes under intense pressure and generally bossing the game with his awesome mix of power and precision.
of course, it's easier to dictate the play when you have n'golo kante alongside you, and the chelsea man had another excellent game – but this was pogba at his very best, turning in one of those ridiculously composed performances in which he reminds everyone of his full repertoire of skills.
from a defensive perspective, he regained possession more than any other player (12 times), while no player won more headers or made more interceptions (three apiece).
offensively, it was he who played the outrageous outside-of-the-boot pass out to lucas hernandez that led to mats hummels' own goal.
unsurprisingly, he was also involved in the build-up to france's two disallowed goals, from kylian mbappe and karim benzema.
he was utterly unplayable at times and it was no coincidence that he was the most fouled player on the pitch, too.
at one point, it even seemed that germany defender antonio rudiger tried to take a bite out of him in a desperate bid to rattle pogba.
there was no chance of that, though.
this was the pogba that used to take buffon's breath away at juventus: excelling in the right role and surrounded by top talent.
there was never any doubt, then, that he would be named man of the match.
whether he will ever be crowned the best player in the world, though, remains unclear.
can united ever really offer him the same freedom as france?
hungary 0-3 portugal: match statistics  there may only have been five minutes gone, but because of the look on cristiano ronaldo's face as diogo jota took a shot instead of passing to him, it was tempting to think that it wasn't going to be the portugal captain's night.
the liverpool forward stung the hands of hungary goalkeeper peter gulacsi with a decent effort from the edge of the area, but ronaldo had wanted the ball and he made his team-mate aware of his disgust in no uncertain terms.
the 36-year-old cut a frustrated figure for a further 80 minutes.
at one point just before the break, he was left with his hands on his head after somehow missing the target from five yards.
by the midway point of the second half, he had been reduced to making desperate claims for a penalty.
the thing about ronaldo is that even when it looks like things aren't going his way, he often ends up stealing the headlines.
he said before tuesday night's euro 2020 group f clash in budapest that "was not overwhelmed" by the prospect of making history in his historic fifth appearance at the finals.
why would he have been?
this is not a character that cracks under pressure.
he knows how to deal with disappointment.
he became the best player in the world as much for his drive and determination as his incredible footballing ability.
he does not stop.
he just keeps going.
that's why he is now the european championship's all-time leading scorer, with his double in a 3-0 win over a tenacious hungary side taking him to 11 goals – two more than france legend michel platini.
ali daei's international record of 109 is now also within touching distance.
ronaldo has moved to 106 strikes for the seleccao.
no wonder he was all smiles at the end of the game.
however, both he and his team-mates were in anything but a celebratory mood as the second half at puskas arena drew towards a close with the game still scoreless.
portugal boast a squad packed with players who won league titles last season but it just wasn't clicking.
they looked like a group of great individuals rather than a true team, and just couldn't find a way through the home side's stubborn defence.
the cauldron of sound created by a capacity crowd in budapest added to their troubles.
every portuguese touch was jeered and every successful hungarian challenge was greeted by an enormous cheer.
on paper, this was the 'easy' game in the 'group of death' for portugal.
their hosts, after all, had never beaten them, and hungary had only qualified for the euros via the nations league play-offs.
yet marco rossi's side showed that they are not just here to make up the numbers.
he had said in his pre-match press conference that hungary could "dream" of upsetting portugal and they thought they had taken the lead when szabolcs schon fired home with just 10 minutes to go.
however, the 60,000 hungary fans celebrating exuberantly were brought crashing down to earth by the realisation that the offside flag had been raised.
further disappointment would follow, as portugal's superior strength in depth finally took its toll.
rossi's game plan had worked well, with hungary nullifying portugal with their deep defence.
seleccao coach fernando santos even admitted afterwards that his side had looked "anxious" in the second half but the introduction of rafa silva and renato sanches changed things.
"i brought rafa on and the game opened up because he is very, very fast," santos said after the game.
"we wanted renato to move the ball up from midfield, we wanted to play a more vertical game and free up rafa.
i think it worked well enough because we won 3-0!
"fortune smiled on the champions.
the crucial first goal came courtesy of a deflected strike from raphael guerreiro, while the second was the result of a soft penalty, which was emphatically converted by ronaldo, who had only had three touches in the hungarian box before then.
however, portugal's third goal was pure class, with ronaldo starting and finishing a move in fine style, by tapping home after taking the ball coolly around gulacsi.
the game had started with ronaldo screaming at a team-mate in familiar frustration.
it ended with him celebrating in his usual style.
we shouldn't have been surprised, of course.
this is what he does.
this is cristiano ronaldo, football's relentless record-breaker.
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountgareth southgate says "phenomenal" raheem sterling has set the tone for england's euro 2020 campaign after the manchester city forward silenced his doubters in sunday's 1-0 victory against croatia.
southgate's side made a positive start to their bid to win the european championship thanks to sterling's second-half strike at wembley.
with england labouring to break down resolute croatia, it was sterling who latched onto kalvin phillips' exquisite pass to fire home from 10 yards.
sterling's first goal in a major tournament after a series of flops on the biggest international stages could not have come at a more vital moment.
failure to win their group d opener, which looked a distinct possibility until sterling scored, would have been a setback for england.
sterling would also have endured fresh questions about his form if england had flopped after his lacklustre end to the season with city.
when sterling was named in southgate's starting line-up, there were some who claimed it was a mistake to pick him instead of jack grealish.
the critics pointed to sterling's tame display in city's champions league final defeat against chelsea and his long spells on the bench for the premier league champions.
but southgate is a firm believer in sterling's qualities and his faith was rewarded as the 26-year-old tore into croatia to prove his point.
ignoring the sweltering temperatures, sterling set the tempo in england's high-energy opening, then came to the rescue when they were running out of ideas after the interval.
"he's been a reliable performer for us for a long period of time," southgate said.
"we can't have all the burden of scoring on harry kane's shoulders.
we need the wide players to chip in.
"i'm delighted for him as he went quite a few tournament matches without scoring before today.
he set the tone with his pass to phil (foden) early on today.
"his work without the ball was phenomenal, positionally and his desire to track.
"'block the noise out' the 'football's coming home' anthem belted out by england's fans during the post-match lap of honour carried extra meaning for sterling.
linked with a move away from city after scoring once in his last 16 appearances at the end of this season, sterling found comfort in his return to north london, where he grew up just a few miles from wembley.
"it's a great feeling for me playing at wembley, not far from where i grew up as a young boy and seeing the stadium being built," sterling said.
"there are a lot of different reasons i haven't scored for my club and that's totally irrelevant now.
"i'm here with england, i'm enjoying my football and that's the most important thing.
"i just tried to focus and come into this tournament with a clear head.
i know what i can bring to the team and it's as simple as that.
"sterling won the man of the match award, but leeds midfielder phillips pushed him close.
phillips was a surprise choice by southgate, but the 25-year-old seized his chance with a stylish performance.
deployed by leeds in a midfield holding role, southgate urged phillips to have a more forward-thinking mindset and he responded with the dynamic burst that set up sterling's winner.
"kalvin is a fabulous boy to work with, so unassuming.
his contribution to the goal summed his day up," southgate said.
"he's technically good and we knew the athleticism in midfield was going to be important.
"all the attributes are there.
high performance, low maintenance.
we like that a lot.
"next up is friday's grudge match against scotland and southgate warned his players not to rest on their laurels.
"you can get a bit of a glow from the win and go a bit soft," southgate said.
"we've got to make sure we're ready for what is going to be an incredible game against scotland.
"© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
brought to you by  heinekenonce you have subscribed we will use the email you provided to send you the newsletter.
you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the newsletter email.
everyone in football and beyond is praying that christian eriksen will make a full recovery from his traumatic collapse during denmark's euro 2020 clash with finland on saturday night.
there is optimism surrounding eriksen's condition now that he is in the hands of medical officials in copenhagen having regained conscious before being stretched off the parken stadium pitch.
the danish fa confirmed in an official statement on sunday that the former tottenham hotspur midfield was 'stable' and that messages of support will be passed on to him and his loved ones.
it read: "this morning we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination.
"the team and staff of the national team has received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident.
"we would like to thank everyone for the heartfelt greetings to christian eriksen from fans, players, the royal families from both denmark and england, international associations, clubs etc.
"we encourage everyone to send their greetings to the danish fa, where we will make sure they are all passed on to christian and his family.
"seeing such a fit and healthy 29-year-old suffering such a harrowing medical incident during an athletic performance has undoubtedly been a traumatic and affecting moment for everyone involved.
and if any good can come from the upsetting scenes that transpired in the danish capital then it's the hope of greater awareness surrounding cardiological health.
euro 2020: news, groups, fixtures, dates, tickets, odds and everything you need to knowafter all, there's good reason to think that simon kjær's proficiency in cpr and knowledge of the recovery position was integral in saving eriksen's life.
and that's exactly why a viral twitter thread by cardiologist sadi raza is so important, highlighting some of the potential details around eriksen's condition and explaining what we can all do if forbid any such incident were ever to happen around us.
it makes for an educational and sobering read, so be sure to join the thousands of twitter users who have already given it their attention by checking out the full thread down below:life really is fragile and it is so important that we all have a basic understanding of first aid in the unlikely scenario that our assistance might be required.
besides, the conduct of the medical team as well as both the danish and finnish squads was nothing short of heroic in what will endure as one of football's most traumatic ever incidents.
it's incredibly positive to hear that eriksen is now on the mend and no doubt he would be greatly buoyed by the idea of what happened to him raising awareness about heart health and first aid.
if just one person is more educated on cpr because of saturday night's events, then the legacy of eriksen's collapse could well be a life-saving one.
get well soon, christian.
the world's ninth-fastest journalist.
interviewed sir mo farah, dina asher-smith, eliud kipchoge and katarina johnson-thompson.
author of such literary classics as 'ranking every premier league manager by how good they'd be on a night out'.
© 2021 sports new media limited.
all rights reserved.
spain set several possession records on monday against sweden although la roja couldn't turn all of that possession into the goal needed to secure all three points.
sweden were able to keep spain at bay to earn a 0-0 draw on monday as luis enrique's side settled for just one point on a disappointing day.
however, spain toppled some of their own records against the swedes, who were content to let spain have their trademark possession for all 90 minutes.
by the final whistle, spain had amassed 85 per cent possession against a bunkered-in sweden as la roja were always in complete control.
that 85 per cent number makes spain the first-ever team to hit that benchmark at the euros side since opta began collecting data in 1980. along the way, spain completed 419 passes in the first half, the highest figure in the opening 45 minutes of a european championship game.
they also completed 303 passes in the opposing half in the first half, the most by any team at the euros, while sweden made just 38 passes in the spain half, the fewest by any team at the euros.
when all was said and done, spain ended up finishing with a record total of 917 passes.
with that, spain broke their own euros mark, which was coincidentally set nine years ago to the day.
on that day, spain completed 859 passes against ireland, with the legendary xavi responsible for 136 of them.
seville, spain:     sweden were out-passed by a factor of over five to one against spain in their opening euro 2020 group e match but they made no apologies for shutting down the spaniards in a dull 0-0 draw on monday.
spain dominated possession and played a massive 953 passes, according to uefa statistics, compared with sweden's 178, yet their stifling tactics and superb goalkeeping from robin olsen earned them a point.
"for us, it makes no difference if they have that many passes, if they have the ball outside us and can't find a way in, it makes no difference.
in football, it's about scoring goals, so for me there's no problem," sweden defender victor lindelof told reporters.
"i think they (the spaniards) got a bit frustrated.
they had a lot of the ball and some high pressing at times, but we managed to defend well and clear the ball on many occasions.
the longer the match goes, the more frustrated they get because they wanted to score," he added.
coach janne andersson was delighted with his side after they kept the 2008 and 2012 european champions scoreless.
"it's not like it was raining goal-scoring chances for spain, even if they had a lot of the ball.
robin (olsen) made some good saves, and there were some other good chances for them too," he told reporters.
andersson sent his side out to be tight and compact, with strikers alexander isak and marcus berg asked to sacrifice the creative part of their game to lead the defensive effort from the front.
"our forwards are the ones who have to run the most and work the hardest, and they are very important when we win the ball based on how we play," andersson said.
the 58-year-old chose to withdraw isak and berg, both of whom had chances to score what would have been a scarcely-deserved winner for the swedes, in the second half to replace them with fresh legs.
"spain are brutally skilful with the ball, and when you go you have to be sure you can be better in your pressing .
.
.
sure, there's absolutely things we could do better in this game, but overall i think we did very well," andersson said.
(reporting by philip o'connor in copenhagen, editing by ed osmond)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
denmark's christian eriksen suffered a cardiac arrest when he collapsed during his side's euro 2020 opening match against finland, his team's doctor confirmed on sunday, but the reason remained unclear.
"he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation)," morten boesen told a news conference, adding that eriksen remained in hospital for further tests after his collapse on saturday.
"the exams that have been done so far look fine," boesen added.
"we don't have an explanation to why it happened.
"eriksen, 29, collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in.
as a hush fell over the 16,000-strong crowd, his team mates gathered around him while he was treated on the pitch and then carried off on a stretcher.
the danish players had been in contact with eriksen via a video conference, said peter moller, director of danish football association dbu.
coach kasper hjulmand said eriksen had told him he did not remember much from saturday's collapse and that he was eager to get back on to the pitch.
"he would like for us to play on," hjulmand said.
"he said he feels like he could go out and play again.
christian feels best when he's got a football close to his feet.
"hjulmand quoted the midfielder as saying: "i think you are feeling worse than i am.
i feel as if i'm about to go training now, boys.
""christian is in good spirits and it's a huge relief for the players after all this uncertainty," hjulmand said.
"there is no doubt that we have been on the ropes.
"messages of support for eriksen, who plays for inter milan, have poured in.
the group b game was halted and eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later.
finland went on to win 1-0 with their only attempt of the game.
former danish internationals peter schmeichel and michael laudrup have criticized governing body uefa over their handling of the collapse.
the players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday.
"looking back, i honestly don't think that we should have been back on the pitch," hjulmand said.
"i have thought about whether i could have done things differently.
"got a confidential news tip?
we want to hear from you.
sign up for free newsletters and get more cnbc delivered to your inboxget this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
© 2021 cnbc llc.
all rights reserved.
a division of nbcuniversaldata is a real-time snapshot *data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
global business and financial news, stock quotes, and market data and analysis.
data also provided by
published :
													14 jun 2021 at 11:45												writer: 
															afp london: england launched their bid for euro 2020 glory with a 1-0 win over croatia on sunday, as scotland were set to end their 23-year wait to play in a major tournament and covid-hit spain prepared to face sweden.
raheem sterling scored at a sun-baked wembley as england won their opening game of a european championship finals for the first time at the 10th attempt.
england's neighbours scotland, playing at the highest level for the first time since the 1998 world cup, will face the czech republic in glasgow on monday, before a new-look spain get their bid for a record fourth european crown underway without captain sergio busquets who tested positive for coronavirus.
but the action on the pitch is still being overshadowed by the fallout from the shocking events in copenhagen's parken stadium on saturday when christian eriksen suddenly collapsed during denmark's group b loss to finland, lying motionless as medics administered cpr.
the match resumed nearly two hours later following a suspension after reports filtered through that eriksen was in a stable condition and awake.
"he was gone, and we did cardiac resuscitation, and it was cardiac arrest," team doctor morten boesen told a press conference on sunday.
"how close were we?
i don't know.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation), so that's quite fast.
"denmark forward martin braithwaite called the incident "one of the scariest moments of my life".
"i'm grateful that he's stable and alive.
right now, that's all that matters.
hope to see you soon my friend," he tweeted.
england make winning starton sunday, manchester city's sterling scored his first goal at a major tournament as england gained a measure of revenge for their 2018 world cup semi-final defeat by croatia.
the forward's sharp finish in the second half was enough for the home side to send the wembley crowd home happy.
sterling grew up in the shadow of london's wembley and justified manager gareth southgate's decision to keep faith with him by scoring the only goal just before the hour.
"i always said if i played at wembley in a major tournament, i'm scoring.
i had to score in my back garden and delighted to do that," he told the bbc.
england, seeking to end a 55-year wait for a major trophy, are playing all three group games at their london home.
if they top group d they will also play there in the last 16, while london is also the venue for both semi-finals as well as the final on july 11. the netherlands, back at a major tournament for the first time since 2014, defeated ukraine 3-2 in a thrilling group c encounter in amsterdam.
dutch captain georginio wijnaldum put the hosts ahead early in the second half before wout weghorst doubled their advantage.
ukraine equalised with two quick goals from andriy yarmolenko and roman yaremchuk, but a denzel dumfries header five minutes from time earned frank de boer's side victory.
north macedonia lost 3-1 to austria in their first match in a major tournament as an independent nation in bucharest, despite an equaliser from 37-year-old captain goran pandev.
scotland set to celebrate returnscotland's match in group d has been slightly overshadowed by the racism ban which ruled czech defender ondrej kudela out of the tournament.
the slavia prague player was suspended for 10 games for racially abusing rangers midfielder glen kamara on a europa league visit to scotland in march.
"i believe that he did not tell him anything racist, there was no evidence, but a lot of people on the islands (the uk) condemned him and he received a severe sentence," said czech republic and west ham midfielder tomas soucek.
but scotland's fans will be sure to celebrate at hampden park, with their side finally back in the big time.
"i hope it inspires a nation, i hope we can make them happy.
you can feel a real buzz around the country already," said scotland captain andy robertson.
the coronavirus, which delayed the tournament for a year, is still proving a major headache.
portugal defender joao cancelo has tested positive for covid-19 and is out of euro 2020, with diogo dalot taking his place in the squad.
spain's preparations have been badly hit by the virus, with busquets missing for monday's clash with sweden in seville, while defender diego llorente was only allowed to rejoin the group on saturday after giving a fourth consecutive negative test.
"it's been a tough week, without doubt, but no complaints, no excuses," said spain coach luis enrique.
the other opening group e game sees robert lewandowski's poland face slovakia in saint petersburg.
world cup holders france -- with karim benzema recalled -- are the favourites to win the continental crown.
they begin their campaign against germany in munich on tuesday, with holders portugal facing hungary in the other group f match.
kalasin: a college student died after crashing his motorcycle into the rear of a stationary pickup in muang district of this northeastern province late on monday night, police said.
samut prakan: a 73-year-old retired police officer died on monday, five days after receiving a shot of astrazenica covid-19 vaccine, police said.
washington: the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
former spain midfielder luis garcia believes the fact that la furia roja are not among the favourites to win euro 2020 could work in their favour.
after a week without training and three years of upheaval, spain head into their opener against sweden tomorrow morning (singapore time) determined to leave the past behind.
luis enrique was appointed to ring the changes in the aftermath of the 2018 world cup, when going out on penalties to russia had made it three consecutive failures to reach the quarter-finals of a major tournament.
spain's preparations for the euros have been hardly ideal, with captain sergio busquets and defender diego llorente testing covid-19 positive, although the latter has since received four consecutive negative tests and been allowed to rejoin the squad.
due to the positive tests, their final warm-up match against lithuania was played by spain's under-21s, with the senior team in isolation and unable to train together.
ahead of their clash with sweden, who have also seen their plans disrupted by the positive tests for dejan kulusevski and mattias svanberg, former champions league winner garcia told indian media: "it can be an advantage.
"we have seen many times that when the spotlight is not on you, the players arrive with a little less pressure.
"(when you are favourites) the media brings the pressure when you play.
.
.
"everyone expected them to perform the way they did in 2008, 2010 and 2012," he said, in reference to spain's two european championship wins, which sandwiched their maiden world cup triumph.
he added: "at the moment, spain probably don't look like favourites.
(but) for me, they are good enough.
"we have got very good players thiago (alcantara) in midfield will be key.
he is a player who can create something out of nothing.
"there are players like (striker) gerard moreno who can kill the game in a single second because he has been fantastic this whole season.
"cesc fabregas, who was involved in spain's era of success from 2008-2012, also was optimistic about enrique's charges, who are the fifth-youngest team at the euros.
he told goal.
com: "i don't like it when we are complaining before the tournament starts about the squad.
"i had it in 2008 when i was 21, i think.
there was (david) silva and (andres) iniesta coming through, and everyone was doubting us a bit because raul (gonzalez), (michel) salgado, (santiago) canizares and (david) albelda weren't called up.
"all those players were cast aside to make space for us young players.
"we ended up winning the tournament and i don't think i need to repeat what happened after.
.
.
it will not be easy for spain.
.
.
it is a young team but they have proven that they can play well in qualification.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
england manager gareth southgate may have just altered the course of the three lions' euro 2020 history.
no team have played in as many european championship games as england who are making their 10th finals appearance without ever reaching the final.
until last night's 1-0 win over croatia in their group d opener, the class of 2021 appeared destined to become the latest chapter of a seemingly never-ending hard luck story of self-defeatism.
but with a mix of bold choices and selection gambles, southgate might have changed that.
raheem sterling's 57th-minute strike, pouncing onto a through-ball from influential leeds united midfielder kalvin phillips, breathed new life into a flagging three lions team who had resolutely attempted to take the game to their ageing visitors in the first half.
the manchester city forward's inclusion in the starting line-up itself had already sparked consternation, with southgate lambasted before the game for choosing a player who had grown up in the shadow of wembley, ahead of jack grealish and jadon sancho.
yet, the england manager's gamble paid off handsomely as he ended an unflattering sequence of nine winless opening group salvos in the continent's flagship tournament.
he refused to bow to public pressure and persevered with a player whose track record of scoring for his country had produced a flawless return of 10 previous victories.
southgate can also claim vindication for favouring protectionism over panache with kieran trippier's rare deployment at left-back raising eyebrows and questions alike.
prior to staring down zlatko dalic's charges, he had played in the role on just four previous occasions, with the previous weekend's friendly win over austria the most recent.
having the inside knowledge to nullify atletico madrid teammate sime vrsaljko, operating on the right side of defence, saw trippier chosen over the in-form duo of luke shaw and ben chilwell.
hindsight suggests that southgate's boldness reaped a deserved reward as trippier rarely appeared troubled by croatia's three-pronged attack while right-back kyle walker recovered from a shaky first-half to shackle ivan perisic and josko gvardiol.
for a time, this maiden group d encounter was in danger of following a similar pattern for england.
as the clock ticked down towards the interval, phil foden's early effort that crashed against the base of dominik livakovic's right-hand post increasingly faded from memory with luka modric and mateo kovacic taking turns to wrest back control from their hosts.
once temperatures soared at england's national stadium, however, the black-shirted croatians wilted.
they struggled to contain the omnipotent threat posed by sterling, phillips as well as second-half substitutes marcus rashford and jude bellingham.
southgate's willingness to trust his instincts has further shifted the perception of the englishman, who has made the job his own these past 41⁄2 years.
before last night, no england manager had the presence of mind to field a starting line-up devoid of liverpool or manchester united players at a major tournament, since the euro 1992 clash against against france.
refusing to pander solely to representatives of the english premier league's traditional big six is an indication of southgate's willingness to place his hopes in the new brightest and best.
that should mean more minutes for the likes of phillips, aston villa's tyrone mings the first villan to start for england at the euros since southgate himself played against germany in 1996 and west ham united midfielder declan rice.
full-throated renditions of "football's coming home" at the final whistle may still be somewhat premature but england have never been in a stronger position to deliver.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen • denmark playmaker christian eriksen remained in hospital yesterday but is in a "stable" condition after collapsing during his country's euro 2020 group b game against finland on saturday, the danish football union (dbu) said.
"this morning, we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his team-mates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination," it tweeted.
the 29-year-old player suffered a cardiac arrest, the team doctor confirmed, but the reason remained unclear.
"he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation)," dr morten boesen told a news conference, adding that eriksen remained in hospital for further tests.
"the exams that have been done so far look fine.
we don't have an explanation to why it happened.
"the dbu also said that the team and staff had "received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident".
the news will have come as relief to eriksen's current and former teammates, many of whom wished him well.
the inter milan midfielder collapsed in the 43rd minute of denmark's euro 2020 opener, laying motionless on the pitch as medical personnel performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr).
captain simon kjaer reportedly helped to clear eriksen's airways first and started cpr before medics took over.
goalkeeper kasper schmeichel was seen consoling eriksen's wife sabrina kvist.
both players earned widespread praise as heroes.
the game was suspended temporarily but after receiving confirmation that eriksen was all right and in a stable condition and awake, uefa gave the danes an option to resume the game shortly or restart yesterday at noon local time.
1.  fabrice muambathe bolton man collapsed during an fa cup match in 2012 due to a cardiac arrest and was technically "dead" for 78 minutes before he was revived.
the former england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
2.  antonio puertathe sevilla midfielder collapsed during a spanish la liga match in 2007 and again in the dressing room.
he was rushed to hospital, where he died three days later of multiple organ failure due to cardiac arrest at the age of 22.
3.  marc-vivien foethe cameroon midfielder, 28, died during a confederations cup match in 2003.  medical staff failed to restart his heart on the pitch and he was pronounced dead.
reutersthe former tottenham star was said to have told his teammates to return to the field and denmark coach kasper hjulmand also insisted there was no pressure from uefa, but some felt the game should have been called off and rescheduled to a later date.
manchester united great peter, the danish custodian's father, told the bbc: "it's a ridiculous decision by uefa.
they should have tried to work out a different scenario and shown a little bit of compassion, and they didn't.
"when the game resumed, the atmosphere at parken stadium was considerably muted and the hosts appeared to be distracted, slipping to a 1-0 defeat courtesy of joel pohjanpalo's second-half winner.
the header was one that kasper would normally have saved as it was straight at him, while kjaer had to be taken off in the 63rd minutes as the defender was too "overwhelmed" to continue.
denmark's yussuf poulsen won a penalty when he went down under slight contact in the 73rd minute.
in the absence of usual spot-kick taker eriksen, pierre-emile hojbjerg assumed the responsibility but the midfielder could only hit his penalty straight at finland goalkeeper lukas hradecky and hjulmand later admitted that his players were "traumatised".
in the aftermath of the shocking event, conspiracy theories sprung up on the internet, suggesting that eriksen had previously contracted covid-19 and had been vaccinated.
but inter director giuseppe marotta dismissed those claims, saying there was no truth behind them, while eriksen's former cardiologist, dr sanjay sharma of st george's, university of london, added he had no heart issues during his seven-season spell at spurs.
the dbu yesterday called off a scheduled press conference while the team's next training session was postponed indefinitely, local broadcaster tv2 reported.
agence france-presse, reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
home  f365 says  f365 says: dominant spain suffer from familiar flawdate published: monday 14th june 2021 10:54                 ian watson spain's lack of potency is nothing new but luis enrique must find a fresh and swift solution.
.
.
luis enrique is unlikely to panic after seeing his spain side fail to make their dominance pay against sweden.
with one win from their last six major tournament openers, la roja are used to starting slowly.
another familiar failing, though, will keep enrique awake tonight after this stalemate in seville.
spain's positive approach play, once again, was wasted by their forward line.
never did spain look more like a team of midfielders.
with 75 per cent possession, the hosts passed and passed, 953 times to be precise – 231 more passes than any other team in the group stage so far – but with sweden content to sit back and watch the merry-go-round, enrique's men struggled to proportionately test robin olsen.
that is not to say spain did not create chances.
rather, the ones they did were hopelessly wasted.
and the hosts did not muster enough opportunities to be so profligate.
this was always the fear for spain.
despite their previous pedigree and the obvious talent within enrique's ranks, the lack of potency in attack has kept them off many people's list of genuine contenders to win the tournament.
17 – spain had 17 shots in tonight's draw against sweden, their highest tally in a major tournament game (european championships + world cup) without scoring since having 25 attempts against switzerland in a group stage match at the 2010 world cup.
stalemate.
#euro2020 #esp #swe pic.
twitter.
com/bbvt0vopun— optajoe (@optajoe) june 14, 2021the absence of firepower and concerns over the heart of their defence were seen the primary flaws in enrique's plan, but the forward line must be a far greater concern for enrique than the raw partnership between pau torres and aymeric laporte.
alvaro morata, handsome-yet-hapless, is the obvious poster boy for spain's striking woes.
the atletico madrid striker, who spent the season on loan at juventus, was trusted by enrique to lead the line but morata proved his many doubters right once more.
he wasted spain's biggest chance, one that arrived courtesy of sweden's only defensive slip of the night.
the otherwise-excellent marcus danielson missed jordi alba's hopeful pass to allow morata a clear shot but with time and space to pick his spot, the striker inexplicably rolled the ball wide of the target.
morata's subsequent subdued slump towards enrique's hook was inevitable to anyone who saw the forward endure a miserable season and a half at chelsea.
no club among chelsea, real madrid, atletico, juventus has yet trusted morata to lead their line for more than two consecutive seasons before deciding to source their goals elsewhere.
for enrique, consecutive games at euro 2020 would be too many.
morata is certainly not the only striker for whom confidence is key, but few are as extreme as the 28-year-old.
morata has failed to score in his last four spain appearances and he has only two goals in eight appearances since earning another shot in enrique's squad at the back end of last year.
gerard moreno is the most obvious replacement, but ferran torres was moved inside for a brief attempt at leading the line after morata was withdrawn on 66 minutes.
torres lasted only eight minutes more before being replaced by moreno.
and the villarreal striker was guilty too of wasting a glorious late chance when he directed a close-range header straight at olsen.
when enrique assesses his options for the crucial clash with poland on saturday night, moreno offers the most in-form alternative to morata.
his 30 goals in 46 games in all competitions for villarreal make a most compelling case.
enrique could be forgiven for looking enviously at sweden's biggest threat, aleksander isak.
the real sociedad striker was constant threat to spain.
the 21-year-old's power and technique created sweden's two best opportunities, with spain lucky to avoid being on the end of a swedish smash and grab.
there were some positives for enrique.
chief among them, pedri.
the barcelona youngster became spain's youngest-ever player at the european championships and his influence grew as the game wore on.
which it certainly did for many neutral observers.
even pedri, though, was perhaps not as direct as he had been for barca last season and a lack of leaders around the 18-year-old is another concern for enrique, especially while sergio busquets sits out.
the greatest worry, though, remains spain's inability to profit from their possession.
patrik schick was sublime and lyndon dykes wasn't.
that was the difference.
no longer is the english game "all about heart".
foden is king of a new breed that would suit other countries.
none of those players or officials should have been asked to play on so soon after fearing for christian eriksen's life.
.
.
it took 'the end' of italian football to create it, but boy, was it worth it.
that really was quite something.
page said the draw with switzerland 'felt like a win'.
a passive point might not look so good later on.
.
.
edu and arteta are throwing the net wide this summer as they look to make six arsenal signings.
kalvin phillips and raheem sterling were all kinds of mint.
and so, too, was gareth sodding southgate.
patrik schick was sublime and lyndon dykes wasn't.
that was the difference.
some efl managers have done enough to deserve a bigger club.
we're on board for michael duff at burnley.
.
.
kalvin phillips shone in a major tournament opener on his ninth england cap.
it brings darius vassell to mind.
england played more like germany than john nicholson can ever remember as they controlled v croatia.
update your browser to view this website correctly.
update my browser now×
london: raheem sterling finally found his tournament touch when his 61st-minute goal gave england a deserved 1-0 win over croatia at wembley on sunday (jun 13) as they began a european championship with a victory for the first time in nine attempts.
sterling, something of a surprise starter after a flat end to the domestic season but a favourite of manager gareth southgate, slid home after great work by kalvin phillips to end an individual drought that had run through england's three previous major tournaments.
"it feels good.
i grew up two minutes down the road, so i knew i had to score here, and it was a great feeling to do it," said the wembley-raised forward.
southgate said he was unaware of england's previous run of opening-game failures despite having played in one of them in 1996 but, as expected, was not getting carried away by a solid but unexceptional display.
"it's for everybody else to get excited and throw their beer around and do whatever they want," he said.
"it's brilliant to give that joy to people.
but for us, it's on to the next one and preparing for a really tough game on friday (against scotland).
"but i was really pleased with the way we settled so quickly.
big occasion, sweltering hot day, every reason to look nervous at the start, but we didn't.
with and without the ball, we were composed.
although it was always going to be a game of few clear chances, we looked the bigger threat throughout.
"the game lacked the jeopardy of the teams' 2018 world cup semi-final, won by croatia, and losing on sunday was no disaster for them given the way the draw pans out, but it was a morale-boosting victory for england as they set off once again in search of their first title since 1966. pace flaggedroared on by a noisy 22,500 crowd a quarter of wembley's capacity they started full of bright intentions and put huge pressure on the visitors.
phil foden, his bleached hair channelling paul gascoigne from euro 96, almost gave them a dream start when he cut in from the right and curled a low shot against a post.
phillips, impressive all afternoon, then had a 25-yard shot blocked but, instead of riding the early momentum, england lost their way and, with the sun beating down, the pace and energy seeped out of the game either side of the break.
england eventually shook themselves out of the torpor and struck when phillips drove through the retreating defence, rode two tackles and played the ball expertly into the path of the darting sterling who, under pressure, just got enough on the ball to steer it home.
sterling had looked lively all day and celebrated his first major tournament goal with gusto, though he should have added a second 13 minutes later but blazed wildly over the bar.
another bright spot for england was the introduction of substitute jude bellingham who, at 17 years and 349 days, became the youngest player to appear in the european championship finals.
croatia also threw on their attacking subs as they tried to show a bit more ambition but though england's defence looked a little shaky at times there were few chances for an equalizer as, conversely to england, they lost their opening euro match for the first time in their six tournaments.
"we didn't do enough up front and couldn't engineer our trademark fast-flowing moves, but i am optimistic that we'll improve and get it right in the next two games," said coach zlatko dalic.
they are against scotland and the czech republic, who meet on monday, with croatia playing the czechs in glasgow on friday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.




football
                          
spain boss luis enrique on alvaro morata: "i think alvaro had a great game.
of course we all want to take our chances, but other players had chances too.
i think he's used to it, but of course we want to see that support from the fans"by  pa media  tuesday 15 june 2021 00:06, ukluis enrique has defended alvaro morata following the spain striker's two costly misses in monday night's goalless euro 2020 draw with sweden.
spain boss enrique insisted on-loan juventus hitman morata had a "great game" despite spurning two gilt-edged chances in seville.
marcus berg missed a major opening for sweden too, but spain dominated throughout, attempting 954 passes to the swedes' 174. enrique would not be drawn on sweden's containment tactics, before insisting spain have no need to worry about their chances of progressing from group e. "i think alvaro had a great game," said enrique.
"of course we all want to take our chances, but other players had chances too.
"i think he's used to it, but of course we want to see that support from the fans.
"that's football though, it would have been nice to dedicate a win to the fans because they were fantastic for most of the game today.
17 spain had 17 shots in tonight's draw against sweden, their highest tally in a major tournament game (european championships + world cup) without scoring since having 25 attempts against switzerland in a group stage match at the 2010 world cup.
stalemate.
#euro2020 #esp #swe pic.
twitter.
com/bbvt0vopun"we are going to analyse this game in detail as we always do.
but in this case i think it's really clear, we've all seen what happened this evening so there's really not too much to go into.
"we were by far the better team.
the opposition tried to hang back, we completely controlled the game and tried to create as many chances as possible.
"we had sufficient chances to win the game.
what went wrong?
it's the fact we didn't take those chances.
"it's very clear and we all saw it.
"asked about sweden's defensive approach, enrique continued: "i don't have much of an opinion.
"the coach decided how he wanted to play, and that's completely right of course.
at times you can make that decision and the other team can outdo you.
"they played the way they usually do against us with two strikers.
1 spain completed 419 passes in the first half against sweden, the highest figure in the opening 45 minutes of a european championship game since we have this data available (1980).
control.
#euro2020 #esp #swe"we only allowed them to have one or two chances, whereas we made the sufficient number of chances to win the game.
"but i really don't have an opinion on that, that's a question for mr andersson not me.
"i think we were unlucky to draw tonight.
we had far more chances that's football and we're aware of that.
"we still aspire to winning the group.
if not we'll aim for second and if we can't do that we'll try to be one of the best third-placed teams.
"sweden boss janne andersson was left frustrated to discover striker marcus berg had been abused on social media for his big missed opportunity in front of goal.
asked for his opinion on berg receiving online criticism, andersson replied: "are you joking?
you're joking when you're telling me this.
"you're saying that because he missed a big chance that people are sending him threats?
"are people being negative?
well i don't think you can be negative towards a player who worked his socks off on the pitch.
"marcus berg probably had the most dangerous chance of the match.
"but overall i cannot be anything other than satisfied, because we played really well and we are developing good tactical flexibility.
"i think we could certainly have lost the game but we could also have won the game.
we had some chances also.
"away from home in spain i think they put in a fantastic performance.
spain are brutal with the ball.
"super 6 is back for euro 2020.  could you land the £100,000 on sunday?
play for free, entries by 2pm.
© 2021 sky uk
st petersburg: belgium eased to a comfortable 3-0 victory over russia on saturday (jun 12) with two goals from romelu lukaku and one from thomas meunier to confirm their status among the european championship favourites.
the belgians, top of the fifa rankings, went ahead after only 10 minutes through lukaku and doubled the score before the break through meunier.
lukaku scored his second of the night two minutes from the end extending his record tally for his country to 62 goals.
belgium's obvious superiority was evident throughout the group b encounter in st petersburg, and victory for roberto martinez's team came without kevin de bruyne, out with injury, and only a cameo substitute appearance from captain eden hazard, another of the team's talismans.
belgium go to the top of the group standings, ahead on goal difference from finland, who upset denmark 1-0 in copenhagen earlier on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
wales 1switzerland 1baku • striker kieffer moore is enjoying the "big occasion" after heading in an equaliser, as wales snatched a 1-1 draw against wasteful switzerland in their euro 2020 group a clash at the baku olympic stadium yesterday.
moore, who had a first-half opportunity expertly saved by swiss goalkeeper yann sommer, guided the ball into the net on 74 minutes from a joe morrell delivery as he ghosted into space left by the static swiss defence.
"it's great personally, but it's a good start for us.
we would have liked to have won, but a draw from the first game puts us in a good position," said moore on the bbc.
"it's never good going a goal down, but to get one back and see the game out is a big positive for us.
it was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
"i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
"breel embolo had terrorised the welsh defence and put switzerland ahead when he showed impressive strength to outmuscle defender connor roberts from a corner shortly after half-time.
they also had a late goal by mario gavranovic correctly ruled out by the var (video assistant referee) for offside.
the swiss may blame themselves for not killing off the game earlier, having squandered several golden chances through haris seferovic in the first half and embolo after the break.
defender fabian schar had tried to beat goalkeeper danny ward with a cheeky flick before seferovic's 27th-minute curled shot sailed just over the bar.
the forward squandered two more chances before half-time as the swiss notched 11 attempts to wales' two in the first half.
what his teammates failed to achieve with finesse in the first half, embolo did with sheer power and speed in the 49th minute, heading in from a corner for a deserved lead after his powerful run and shot was saved by ward seconds earlier.
"we knew switzerland would have a lot of the ball and that we'd have to be solid and organised defensively," said wales' caretaker boss rob page told the bbc.
"we wanted a positive start and it feels like a win in the changing room.
i'm so proud of the players for digging so deep.
"with captain gareth bale well-marked throughout, they gradually upped the pressure in search of an equaliser as the swiss eased off and conceded some ground, and moore found the space to beat sommer with a glancing header.
"i feel a bit of frustration with the result, as we had the chances for the second goal but didn't take them," embolo said on uefa.
com.
"perhaps we were too passive after the first goal.
we deserved the win, but it turned out to be a draw and that's a pity.
"we have to take the positives, rest, focus on the next game and bring the good things from this match into the next.
"italy lead the group after their impressive 3-0 victory over turkey in the tournament opener on friday and will host the swiss in rome in their second game on wednesday.
wales stay in the azerbaijan capital to face the turks on the same day.
reutersit was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
austria defeated north macedonia 3-1 in their euro 2020 group c opener in bucharest this morning (singapore time).
stefan lainer gave the austrians the lead in the 18th minute (left), but goran pandev levelled 10 minutes later in north macedonia's first match at a major tournament as an independent nation.
second-half goals from substitutes michael gregoritsch and marko arnautovic then secured the win for austria.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
romelu lukaku paid tribute to christian eriksen after his opening goal for belgium at euro 2020 against russia, dedicating his finish to the denmark international following his collapse against finland on saturday.
the inter forward delivered a message of support for his club team-mate in st.  petersburg after rattling home an early strike against the hosts inside the first quarter-hour.
lukaku and eriksen helped the nerazzurri to a first serie a title in over a decade this season, and were expected to face each other in five days in copenhagen before the latter was rushed to hospital.
after latching onto dries mertens' delivery inside the box played onside by a deflection off a russian defender the striker was able to corral a cool shot past anton shunin to open his account for the tournament.
racing towards the sidelines, he waved away his team-mates coming to join him, instead heading for the nearest television camera to seize it with both hands and shout into its lens: "chris, chris, i love you.
"after belgium won the match 3-0 behind two lukaku goals, the striker admitted it was hard for him to play the match after hearing the news.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with my team-mate christian eriksen," lukaku said.
"i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him.
"on hearing the news about eriksen, lukaku added: "i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spend more time with him than with my family.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family.
"eriksen was taken to hospital after collapsing during the first half of denmark's group b clash with finland, having slumped to the turf untouched.
medics ultimately resuscitated him on-site after a lengthy interval, during which the player's team-mates shielded him while their opponents and the crowd voiced their support.
the fixture was eventually resumed, following confirmation that the former tottenham man was awake and in a stable condition.
finland would emerge as 1-0 victors in their first major tournament thanks to joel pohjanpalo's goal just before the hour mark.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 18:15												writer: 
															reuterscopenhagen: denmark midfielder christian eriksen remained in hospital and was in stable condition on sunday, after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch on saturday, the danish football association said.
"this morning we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalized for further examination," danish fa dbu said on twitter.
eriksen, 29, collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in.
as a hush fell over the 16,000-strong crowd, his teammates gathered around him while he was treated on the pitch and then carried off on a stretcher.
"the team and the staff of the national team has received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident," dbu said.
"we would like to thank everyone for the heartfelt greetings to christian eriksen from fans, players, the royal families from both denmark and england, international associations, clubs etc," it said.
messages of support for eriksen, who plays for inter milan, have poured in.
the group b game was halted and then eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later.
finland went on to win 1-0.  ayutthaya: eighteen employees of phra nakhon si ayutthaya hospital were found to be infected with covid-19 but the situation was under control and it remains open, hospital director chokchai leetho-chawalit said.
wellington: polynesian seafarers likely reached antarctica hundreds of years before the western explorers usually credited with discovering the frozen continent, a new study has concluded.
health authorities reported 17 more covid-19 fatalities on monday and another 3,355 new transmissions, bringing the accumulated toll to 1,466 deaths and the number of cases since the start of the pandemic to 199,264.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
baku (afp) a header from the towering kieffer moore allowed wales to come from behind and draw 1-1 with switzerland in their opening euro 2020 group a game in baku on saturday (june 12).
he nodded home in the 74th minute to cancel out breel embolo's headed opener at the other end, which had come just after half-time.
the draw comes after italy beat turkey 3-0 in the same group in the tournament's opening match in rome on friday.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia monchengladbach's embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
"we're not too disappointed with the draw, it could have been worse," bale told s4c.
"they're a top 10 team in the world, they're there for a reason so we knew in parts we would have to suffer and work hard as a team.
"the best thing for us was to go 1-0 down.
we showed a lot of character, like we always do, to fight back, be brave, get on the ball and get the equaliser.
"switzerland striker gavranovic had a potential winner chalked off by var for offside after he had edged ahead of wales back four.
"over the past year i've hated var but by now, i love it now, fair play," wales midfielder joe allen said.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as the local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding the 1.
95m moore, who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
they broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
netherlands manager frank de boer has vowed that his side will not concede another big lead under his watch, after denzel dumfries' maiden goal for his country rescued victory against ukraine in their euro 2020 opener.
the psv eindhoven man bagged an 85th minute winner after finishes for andriy yarmolenko and roman yaremchuk had cancelled out georginio wijnaldum and wout weghorst's earlier efforts.
de boer's blushes were excused by the late intervention, but coming only weeks after a similar spate of concessions against scotland, the 51-year-old has now sought to assure supporters that it will not become a recurring trait of his side's performances.
"i saw a dutch team that played very balanced and dominant," the former ajax and atlanta united boss told his post-match press conference.
"we can be proud.
"we analyze such games almost to the death.
we want to do everything we can to ensure that something like this [comeback] doesn't happen again.
"playing in front of a vocal home crowd at johan cruyff arena, the netherlands often seemed buoyed by the strength of their support, even at limited capacity, with several players quick to highlight the impact.
wolfsburg striker weghorst, who snagged the oranje's second, was one who delighted in the response, stating: "it was a great thing.
"i'm glad there were 16,000 people in the stadium today.
i've seen a lot of orange.
i am happy that we could celebrate the three points together with the fans.
that was great.
"matchwinner dumfries agreed, adding:  "it's great to hear the fans in the stadium again.
"the dutch's struggles- which echoed their aforementioned 2-2 friendly draw with scotland earlier this month continues to mark out the fragile nature of de boer's tactical formations, having eschewed the 4-3-3 his players have professed to be more comfortable with before for a 3-5-2. nevertheless, there was little criticism post-match, with dumfries adding on the madcap finale: "it was a great moment, a great relief.
we believed in ourselves.
i knew we would still get chances.
"weghorst's contribution to the game was also hailed by his team-mates, with defender stefan de vrij quick to praise his ethic throughout.
"he worked very hard for the team and held balls when we were under pressure," the inter star stated.
"he defended very well and helped his colleagues.
i am very happy with him.
"the netherlands now turn to their next group c clash, welcoming fellow matchwinners austria to amsterdam on june 17, knowing that victory will likely ensure their progression to the knockout stages.
they will be wary of a time who ultimately ran out comfortable victors over north macedonia in the end, but will likely take confidence from their high-energy showing on home turf as they look to end their seven-year tournament exodus with an impressive comeback run.
the time for the netherlands and ukraine teams to meet has come in the euro 2020.  who will be stronger and score the cherished points?
let's list the teams' forms and advise on what is the best bet.
we will offer several options for betting at once!so far it is not quite clear what to expect from the dutch team at the euro.
on one hand, lately, everything has more or less improved and the team began to show quality football, but on the other hand there are plenty of problems.
the absence of virgil van dijk immediately comes to mind.
it is not for nothing that bookmakers do not have much faith in frank de boer's players- they are only eighth in the list of euro favorites.
in general, the dutch players are great there are excellent players in all positions.
the team has good chances to advance from the group stage.
the ukraine national team participated in the strongest league a of the nations league, where it performed well.
it was in a quartet with spain, germany, and switzerland.
however, due to an outbreak of coronavirus in the camp of the ukrainian team, it was awarded a technical defeat in the last match of the tournament with switzerland, so it went down to  league b.  then, in qualifying for the world cup-2022 andrey shevchenko's charges drew with the current world champions the french (1-1).
what is the point of all this?
the point is that ukraine plays well with the top teams.
and if you add fortune, lots and lots of it?
then we get a team that, in theory, has all the chances for a victory.
recall that in addition to the netherlands, austria and north macedonia are also in group c.  this is far from a group of death, so with the proper vision, andrey shevchenko's team should make the playoffs from second or maybe even first place.
of course, bookmakers prefer the dutch.
however, we should not immediately bury ukraine.
as we said above, andrey shevchenko's team has recently met with top teams often, so it has some experience.
it will be the most important match for both teams.
unless the austrians show something supernatural, today the netherlands and ukraine will fight for the first place in the group we should hardly expect them to lose a point afterward.
we don't expect the opponent's big name to scare the ukrainians, so we suggest betting on them.
the best option for betting, in our opinion, is a goal from ukraine.
there is no need to think it up the odds for this event are already great.
even if frank de boer's team manages to squeeze the ukrainians, they will get their moment in 90 minutes.
all they need to do is fulfill it.
that was a pessimistic scenario for ukraine.
however, everything may turn in a completely different way ukraine will not submit to the dutch but will try to score.
if it succeeds, it may even get some points.
prediction: ukraine's individual total over (0.
5).
all materials on this site are available under license creative commons attribution 4.
0 international.
you must include the name of the author (creator) of the work (material) and the party of attribution, copyright notice, license title, disclaimer notice and link to the material, if provided with the material.
novak djokovic and stefanos tsitsipas will square off in the final of the 2021 french open today at 14.
00pm (uk time).
novak djokovic produced his best ever performance at roland garros in his semifinal match against rafael nadal.
he recovered from an awful start (0-5 in the first set) to deliver one of most memorable wins of his career against the spaniard.
it was nole's second victory over rafael nadal on parisian clay and he is now bidding to become the first male in the open era to have won all slams at least twice.
nole has won 14 of his last 15 matches on clay and has dropped just five sets in his most recent ten outings.
meanwhile, stefanos tsistsipas has had an excellent start against alexander zverev by taking the first two sets, but then he wasted it and allowed the german to level the score.
however, stefanos managed to regain his focus and clinched the match in the final set to become the first greek to reach the final of a grand slam.
tsitsipas fully deserves his place in the final as he has been one of the best performers on clay over the past two months.
after nole's display in the semifinals, he should be able to lift the trophy here, but we want fancy over 3.
5 sets at the price of 67/100 with bet365.
£10 bet returns £16.
70                
                with bet365 –
                odds correct at time of writingdjokovic v tsitsipas is available to watch live on desktop, mobile or tablet devices in the uk and various other regions worldwide from approximately 5.
30pm bst.
18+ | funded account required | geo restrictions apply | please gamble responsibly1) go to bet365 via this special link2) register an account and make a first deposit of up to £100 to receive up to £100 in bet credits*3) once registered, go to the sports homepage and select 'tennis' from the left-hand menu4) select the play icon next to the match in progress and the stream window will appear*new customers only.
up to £100 in bet credits.
sign up, deposit £5 or more to your account and bet365 will match your qualifying deposit in bet credits when you place qualifying bets to the same value and they are settled.
min odds/bet and payment method exclusions apply.
returns exclude bet credits stake.
t&cs, time limits & exclusions apply.
novak djokovic and stefanos tsitsipas will square off in the final of the 2021 french open today at 14.
00pm (uk.
.
.
follow usresponsible gambling privacy policy copyright © 2021,
        www.
livetennis.
com.
all rights reserved.
necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly.
this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website.
these cookies do not store any personal information.
any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies.
it is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
copenhagen: denmark midfielder christian eriksen remained in hospital but is in a "stable" condition aftercollapsing in his country's euro 2020 game against finlandon saturday, the danish football union (dbu) said on sunday (jun 13).
"this morning we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalized for further examination," the football body said in a post to twitter.
dbu also said that the team and staff had "received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident".
the inter milan star suddenly collapsed in the 43rd minute of denmark's opening euro 2020 game against finland, laying motionless as medical personnel administered cpr.
he laid on the field for about 15 minutes before being carried off the pitch and rushed to hospital.
the game was temporarily suspended awaiting confirmation that eriksen was alright but after reports that the player was in a stable condition and awake, the game was resumed later in the evening, ending in a 1-0 win for underdogs finland.
a sunday press conference with the dbu was cancelled in the morning and the team's scheduled training session has also been postponed indefinitely, broadcaster tv2 reported.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
baku: a header from towering kieffer moore claimed a point for wales in a 1-1 draw with switzerland in baku on saturday (jun 12) to start both teams' euro 2020 campaigns.
moore responded to breel embolo's second-half opener with a quarter of an hour remaining.
both sides trail group a leaders italy, who beat turkey 3-0 in friday's tournament curtain-raiser.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia moenchengladbach's breel embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding 1.
95 metre-tall moore who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
embolo sparks to lifethey broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
dota 2 the international (ti) finally returns after a year's hiatus and is set to take place on august 5 until august 15 in stockholm, sweden with a prize pool of $40,018,195, and out of the18 teams, 12 of them have already been invited to partake in this year's ti.
these teams were selected based on their dpc point rankings, as the top 12 teams in the leaderboard are automatically eligible for the international while the remaining six teams will be selected from regional qualifiers in late june – early july.
the international 10 pro circuit qualifications.
#ti10 #dota2 pic.
twitter.
com/dwiajwodtathere are six more slots for the international, which will be occupied by the winners of the regional qualifiers.
recommended | dota dragon's blood officially gets a season iilog in to leave a commentyour e-mail address is only used to send you esports news from talkesport.
you can always use the unsubscribe link included in the newsletter.
first name*


last name*


email address*


phone number

 i accept the terms and conditions 

subscribe to stay updated.
the scoreboard at copenhagen's parken stadium read denmark 0 finland 1 yesterday morning (singapore time).
but the more important result was delivered at the nearby rigshospitalet medical facility danish playmaker christian eriksen was awake, stable and responsive after suffering cardiac arrest during the euro 2020 group b opener.
tests so far have returned normal results.
many feared the worst after the 29-year-old inter milan midfielder had collapsed on the field while he was about to receive a throw-in in the 42nd minute, with no one challenging him.
cardiologists hailed the quick response from various parties as being crucial to the successful resuscitation of eriksen.
referee anthony taylor promptly stopped play and called for medical attention.
denmark captain simon kjaer, the first to attend to eriksen, checked to make sure that his teammate's airway was clear, before administering the first dose of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr).
dr scott murray, a cardiologist with the uk's national health service, told mailonline that kjaer did the right thing.
"we're just lucky that the players on the pitch knew what to do, to put him in a safe position and make sure he wasn't choking and alert the medical team," said dr murray.
denmark's players and staff some of whom were in tears quickly formed a protective human wall around their stricken teammate as he received medical attention from the physios and paramedics.
eriksen was then revived with a defibrillator and taken to hospital.
team doctor morten boesen said yesterday: "he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation).
"the match resumed one hour and 45 minutes later, after news came through that eriksen had regained consciousness.
denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players had been too overwhelmed by the incident to finish the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand said at the news conference.
players were given the option of finishing the game a day later, said the 49-year-old, adding there was no pressure from uefa to complete it on the same day.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," said hjulmand.
his side lost 1-0 to a joel pohjanpalo header.
the danes used video conferencing to communicate with eriksen, who told hjulman he did not remember much from the collapse and that he was keen to get back on to the pitch.
professor sanjay sharma, who is chairman of the expert cardiology consensus panel for england's football association, told the bbc "the thing that saved eriksen's life was very urgent and rapid medical attention".
dr sharma, who was eriksen's former cardiologist, also told the mail on sunday that the player had no history of heart concerns while he was with english premier league club tottenham hotspur from 2013 to 2019.
"i thought, 'oh my god?
is there something there that we didn't see?'
but i have looked at all the test results and everything looked perfect," said dr sharma.
"from the day we signed him, it was my job to screen him and we tested him every year.
so certainly his tests up to 2019 were completely normal, with no obvious underlying cardiac fault.
i can vouch for that because i did the tests.
"former bolton wanderers midfielder fabrice muamba said that eriksen's collapse evoked memories of his cardiac arrest on the pitch in an fa cup match in 2012.
"to watch it from that distance and not know what was going to happen, it was scary, but credit to the medical staff," muamba, who had to retire soon after his cardiac arrest at the age of 24, told the bbc.
"they have done an amazing job on christian.
i like how his teammates got together to protect him.
"eriksen's former spurs teammates jan vertonghen, toby alderweireld and nacer chadli were distraught when they heard the news ahead of their 3-0 group b win over russia.
his inter teammate romelu lukaku, who bagged a brace, dedicated his goals to him.
while the cause of eriksen's cardiac arrest is uncertain, the quick intervention definitely made a key difference, with cardiologists emphasising the importance of recognising the signs and having life-saving cpr skills.
dr yeo tee joo, consultant cardiologist and director of cardiac rehabilitation at singapore's national university heart centre, tweeted: "praying for #christianeriksen's full recovery.
early recognition + prompt cpr + defibrillation saves lives regardless of aetiology of cardiac arrest.
"extremely important knowledge and skill that all should have.
"uk-based cardiologist dr sam mohiddin told the bbc: "the moment of extreme peril is the time of the cardiac arrest and treating that is a matter that requires people to promptly recognise what is happening and really address it quickly with cpr and a defibrillator.
"cpr saves lives.
most of us should learn how to perform cpr for all sorts of reasons and not just because cardiac arrests can affect sportspeople. "
afp, reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
flying fullback denzel dumfries scored a late winner to earn the netherlands a 3-2 victory over ukraine in a thrilling group c opener at the european championship on monday morning (june 14, singapore time) after the dutch had thrown away a two-goal lead.
dumfries rescued all three points for the home team five minutes from time after ukraine had fought their way back into the match at the johan cruyff arena.
the dutch were 2-0 up with 15 minutes left, only to allow their opponents two quick goals and the chance to share the points before dumfries headed home a dramatic winner to the delight of the home fans.
captain georginio wijnaldum and striker wout weghorst netted within seven minutes early in the second half as the dutch sought a successful return to a major tournament – after a seven-year absence – in front of 16,000 spectators.
wijnaldum's left-foot finish in the 52nd minute opened the scoring before weghorst quickly added a second.
that put the dutch in command but ukraine ensured a nervy finish when captain andriy yarmolenko pulled one back in the 75th minute with a superb strike and roman yaremchuk equalised four minutes later.
wijnaldum scored for a fifth time in his last eight appearances for his country as he snapped up a clearance from ukraine goalkeeper georgiy buschcan, who was attempting to push a square pass away from the dangerous memphis depay.
it was set up after another strong run down the flank from the dutch, whose right wing-back dumfries was particularly dangerous and deserved his big moment at the end.
dumfries was also the provider of the second in the 59th minute although ukraine complained he had fouled rutland malinovskyi in trying to wrestle his way closer to goal.
weghorst reacted quickest to a poor clearance from mykola matviyenko for his second goal in as many games as he repaid coach frank de boer's faith in his hustling ability up front.
yarmolenko brought ukraine back into the game with a fine curling shot from outside the box after exchanging quick passes with malinovskyi.
it was a first goal in six matches at the finals for ukraine and was followed by an equally adept finish as yaremchuk headed home malinovskyi's perfectly-weighted free-kick.
parity lasted only six minutes, however, as dumfries headed home nathan ake's cross.
"i am relieved," wijnaldum said.
"overall, we played a good game, but we gave them two chances in 10 minutes which were two goals.
we need to learn that if we play such a match we need to finish it off well.
we let them get back into the game and that needs to improve. "
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
paris: novak djokovic captured his second french open title as he recovered from being outplayed for two sets by stefanos tsitsipas to win 6-7(6) 2-6 6-3 6-2 6-4 victory on sunday (jun 13).
djokovic's seismic semi-final win over 13-times champion rafa nadal looked like being in vain as an inspired tsitsipas moved to the brink of becoming greece's first grand slam champion.
after failing to convert a set point in an enthralling 72-minute opener full of brutal rallies and then crumbling in surprising fashion in the second set, djokovic looked drained.
his hopes of banking a 19th grand slam title were hanging by a thread but he rediscovered his mojo in the nick of time to turn the match around in emphatic fashion.
the 34-year-old, who won his first french crown in 2016, rattled through the third and fourth sets as tsitsipas, playing in his first grand slam final, struggled to maintain the intensity that had put him in charge.
fifth seed tsitsipas appeared to be struggling physically but valiantly tried to dig in at the start of the fifth set as the shadows spread across a sunlit court philippe chatrier.
but djokovic got the early break in the decider and although he was pushed hard, he was never threatened again.
there were nerves as he served at 5-4, netting an easy volley and then seeing a tsitsipas backhand flash past him on championship point.
but djokovic would not be denied as he claimed victory by angling away another volley at the second time of asking after four hours 11 minutes.
in moving just one behind the record of 20 shared by nadal and roger federer, djokovic became the first player in the professional era to win each grand slam title at least twice.
"it was again an electric atmosphere.
nine hours of tennis in less than 48 hours," djokovic said on court.
"it's not easy; physically and mentally it was very, very difficult for me, these three days.
i believed in my capacities and in my game.
it's a dream come true.
"djokovic earned his 19th grand slam title the hard way.
not only did he inflict only a third ever defeat on nadal, he also became the first player in the professional era to win a grand slam title having twice come back from a two sets down, having also found himself staring at defeat against lorenzo musetti in the fourth round.
there was no easing in to his first grand slam final for tsitsipas who had to save two break points in his opening service game, one with a backhand and one with an ace.
rock solidtsistipas settled quickly, however, marking out his territory with his backhand looking rock solid.
favourite djokovic was thrown off his stride when he took a heavy tumble chasing down a drop shot at 3-3 and the serb found himself in trouble at 4-5, framing a forehand high into the stands to hand tsistipas a set point.
the players traded backhands but djokovic produced a clever angle to save fend off the set point.
he then served for the set at 6-5 but produced a poor game and a tiebreak was needed to separate them.
it was djokovic who looked to be feeling the strain as he double-faulted on the way to falling 4-0 behind.
but he regrouped and produced a sensational drop volley at 3-5 before forging 6-5 ahead only to see his set point whipped away by a fizzing tsitsipas forehand.
djokovic then shunted a backhand wide to hand tsitsipas a second set point and this time the greek took advantage as djokovic's forehand misfired.
there was a hint of despondency in djokovic's body language and tsitsipas sensed it, seizing control of the match to dominate the second set after breaking early.
djokovic netted a forehand to fall 2-5 down and offered scant resistance as tsitsipas held to take a two-set.
just as against musetti in the fourth round, the backlash was instant.
djokovic began striking the ball more aggressively and closer to the lines and he engineered five break points in an energy-sapping fourth game eventually converting for a 3-1 lead when the greek missed a backhand down the line.
after winning the third set djokovic carried the momentum into the fourth and tsitsipas, who had some treatment on his lower back, appeared to be crumbling as he dropped serve twice.
the crowd tries to spur tsitsipas on in the fifth but there was no escape as djokovic rolled to victory.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
with most of the major european seasons now complete, the rumour mill has been sent into overdrive as clubs ponder their moves ahead of what will be a busy transfer window.
check out the latest gossip below, and see all official deals here.
as says that arsenal have turned their attention to real betis attacking midfielder nabil fekir, but negotiations over a transfer fee are not close to the la liga club's demands.
the former lyon captain was left out of didier deschamps' 26-man france squad for this summer's european championships but, despite a mixed campaign last season, the spanish club consider the 27-year-old to be one of their best players after contributing to 10 goals in la liga.
and the stance is that betis have no intention of letting their playmaker leave for a low price.
fekir was close to joining the premier league in 2018 after a move to liverpool broke down at the 11th hour.
but if any deal is to take place this time, arsenal must be prepared to raise their initial offer, which is reported to be around £20m.
the news comes as mikel arteta's side continue their search for an attacking midfielder after recently missing out on emi buendia, who was linked to the emirates before agreeing a £33m deal with aston villa.
martin odegaard and dani ceballos are unlikely to return on loan and will head back to real madrid, leaving the gunners short in midfield.
stream espn fc daily on espn+ (u. s.  only)
- euro 2020 fixtures: match dates, times and venues22.
00 bst: that will do it for the latest edition of our live transfer talk blog.
we hoped you enjoyed following along with us and remind you to check back shortly for the latest transfer rumours, reports and completed deals.
goodnight!21.
55 bst: arsenal have opened up talks with lazio winger joaquin correa but will need to up their offer in order to make any headway.
il messaggero and la repubblica writes that arsenal have starting the bidding for the argentine at €20 million but that lazio are looking for more along the lines of €35m for the 26-year-old, who new maurizio sarri wants to work with.
correa has tallied 30 goals and 18 assists in 117 games for lazio, including eight and four in 2020-21.
21.
04 bst: gianluigi donnarumma has agreed to a five-year contract with paris saint-germain, according to fabrizio romano.
the transfer guru suggests that donnarumma will put pen to paper soon, on a deal that will see donnarumma bank around £10million (€12m) per year, plus add-ons.
the 22-year-old goalkeeper, who is currently on international duty with italy at euro 2020, is set to become a free agent at the end of the month.
donnarumma has already made 251 appearances for milan at the tender age of 22, having debuted at 16 for the rossoneri.
20.
17 bst: leicester city are considering a shock €20 million move for barcelona midfielder philippe coutinho, according to mundo deportivo.
the move would reunite the 28-year-old with former manager brendan rodgers, with whom the brazilian had his best season.
barcelona are looking to sell the midfielder, who has struggled with form and injury since arriving for £142 million in 2018.
19.
29 bst: united states international konrad de la fuente looks set to depart barcelona.
rac 1 journalist gerard moreno claims that barcelona are nearing a deal to sell de la fuente to marseille.
moreno claims the two are in negotiating a deal that will see the 19-year-old wide man move to om for around €5 million.
📂💣 konrad de la fuentebarça y olympique de marsella negocian por konradlos dos clubes estudian la fórmula de la operación* traspaso puro, inferior a 5m con opción de recompra fcb* cesión y obligatoriedad de compra#mercato en @esportsrac1 pic.
twitter.
com/tlqsvg8dfvde la fuente, who recently was named barca's youth player of the year, has been at the catalan club since 2013.
18.
43 bst: widely tipped with a move to the united states and mls, former chelsea and arsenal man david luiz is also reportedly drawing interest from france.
la provence have confirmed that marseille are in talks with the 34-year-old brazilian over a potential return to ligue 1.  luiz, who previously played at psg between 2014-16, is reportedly intrigued by jorge sampaoli's project at om.
luiz's wages could prove a stumbling block to a potential deal but la provence writes that a deal " would not be impossible.
"18.
01 bst: new tottenham sporting director fabio paratici is not wasting time.
a day after being announced by the club, the italian is already working hard to put his stamp on the club.
the express claims that paratici has his eyes on making stuttgart and argentina forward nicolas gonzalez his first signing with the club.
the 23-year-old bagged six goals in the bundesliga last season, having fired 14 the year before in helping stuttgart achieve promotion to the top flight.
brighton and fiorentina have also been credited with interest in the versatile forward, with the italian side having already had a bid of £21.
4 million rejected.
17.
06 bst: with carlo ancelotti leaving everton for real madrid, has james rodriguez played his last game for the toffees?maybe not, with the 29-year-old colombian revealing he could still have a future at goodison park.
"i don't know.
i think not.
.
.
.
if i stay another year [at everton] that's fine.
"i don't think ancelotti is going to take me.
"the cycle for me with real madrid is closed.
"rodriguez scored six goals and dished out nine assists last season in 26 games for everton, flashing signs of his old self while playing under ancelotti.
16.
18 bst: scottish champions rangers have rejected multiple bids for defender george edmundson, football insider has learned.
the centre-back, 23, spent the second half of last season on loan playing for wayne rooney at derby county, and multiple english clubs have shown interest in acquiring the youngster on a permanent basis.
15.
33 bst: inter milan striker lautaro martinez has reportedly ended talks over a new contract and could move on, says sport.
barcelona will be most keen as they have been tracking the 23-year-old argentine for some time, but inter will want around €80m from clubs to sign him.
14.
00 bst: eden hazard has said that "it didn't occur to me for a second" to leave real madrid this summer after two injury-hit seasons at the bernabeu, insisting that "i won't leave there as a failure.
"hazard played a part in belgium's 3-0 win over russia in their euro 2020 group opener on saturday in st petersburg, coming off the bench after 72 minutes.
he has only started two matches for real madrid since january, the last being a 2-0 champions league semifinal defeat to chelsea on may 5, after a series of muscular injuries severely limited his impact in 2020-21.  he signed for the club for €100m, possibly rising to €160m, from chelsea in july 2019.
"i'm only myself when i can enjoy myself on the pitch.
that hasn't happened in the last two years at madrid," hazard told belgium's het nieuwsblad.
"if you have one or two injuries you can flip the switch, you recover to come back stronger, but if it's five, six, seven it's much more difficult mentally.
but i keep going.
"13.
05 bst: with inter's financial woes, romelu lukaku should be one of the top targets for clubs this summer.
jurgen klinsmann marvels at the rise of romelu lukaku over the past two years after belgium's 3-0 win over russia.
12.
32 bst: major league soccer's new england revolution are tracking real betis forward juanmi, sources have told espn, while the la liga side's winger cristian tello has also attracted interest from several mls clubs.
juanmi, 28, was an €8m signing for betis in 2019 after impressing at real sociedad but has scored just three league goals in two seasons at the club.
the former spain international missed most of 2019-20 with a heel spur setback that kept him out of action for nine months.
he has a contract until 2024 and betis would be open to moving him on, sources said, to free up space in the squad and on their wage bill.
barcelona youth product tello -- who had more of an impact in la liga last year, scoring five goals -- is also available with just a year left on his contract.
toronto fc were one of the mls clubs to make enquiries about him earlier this year, sources told espn, although as with new england revolution, their three designated player spots are currently full.
11.
47 bst: bayern munich will not be amongst the clubs making big moves this summer, club president herbert hainer has said.
"people should not underestimate the effects of corona, even if we have been able to make ends meet comparatively well up to now, there will be considerable abrasion marks on us," hainer said to bayern munich club magazine "51".
"with the exception of dayot upamecano, no more large transfers are possible with us this summer.
"we signed omar richards and seven players are returning who were on loan.
the aim is to strengthen the squad across the board.
however, the quality is so high that we don't need any further top transfers for it.
the mix is ​​right.
"so far we've only seen the tip of the iceberg, and that won't be caught up in twelve months.
when i am currently hearing some transfer rumors and sums again, i seriously ask myself how the clubs want to finance this, especially since many are burdened with high mountains of debt.
it urgently needs to be more sensible.
it cannot go on in such a way that many constantly live beyond their means.
"bayern star striker robert lewandowski has been linked with clubs like real madrid and chelsea, but hainer insists he won't go.
"robert is the best striker in the world," he added.
"he's still got a two-year contract here, and i can well imagine we'll keep him here even longer.
"- borden: how lewandowski's drive to become a world-class striker was kickstarted by tearful setback11.
04 bst: the mirror says that real madrid left-back marcelo is on the radar of both everton and leeds united.
marcelo, 33, had been linked with juventus and doesn't look likely to stay at the bernabeu this summer as he is reportedly not in the plans of new madrid manager carlo ancelotti.
10.
30 bst: inter milan are looking to get around €80m from clubs who want to sign full-back achraf hakimi.
gab & juls suggest inter's hopes of a bidding war for achraf hakimi are unlikely.
09.
51 bst: liverpool are set to make a move for udinese midfielder rodrigo de paul, says the daily star.
de paul, 27, scored nine goals for udinese in serie a last season and has hinted that he could move on this summer.
arsenal and juventus have also been linked with the argentina international.
09.
11 bst: icymi tottenham hotspur have confirmed the appointment of fabio paratici as "managing director, football" from july 1. spurs announced in a statement that the 48-year-old will be "responsible for managing and developing the club's sporting operations, facilities and footballing infrastructure.
"paratici left juventus earlier this month after 11 years at the club and is increasingly likely to be joined by paulo fonseca as talks continue with the former as roma boss over becoming tottenham's new head coach.
09.
00 bst: new paris saint-germain signing georginio wijnaldum has said he thought he was going to join barcelona this summer after leaving liverpool but the move to camp nou never materialised.
the netherlands captain joined psg this week as a free agent despite being heavily linked with barca for the past year.
"what i can say is that i made a different choice," wijnaldum said in saturday's news conference.
"it was a difficult choice.
we negotiated with barcelona for four weeks, but we have not come to an agreement.
psg was more decisive and faster.
the project also really appealed to me.
but it was difficult.
i have to say that i also thought i would go to barcelona.
that was the only club that was really interested in me for a long time.
"janusz michallik picks which potential transfer would have a greater impact in the premier league title race next season.
manchester city are set to cool their interest in sporting's nuno mendes until after euro 2020.  the portugal left-back has been linked with the premier league champions since the transfer window opened, but the daily mail reports that a deal won't happen until after the conclusion of the tournament.
the 18-year-old is currently with the portugal squad as they prepare for their opening game against hungary.
barcelona president joan laporta is keen to sign manchester city defender joao cancelo, claims mercato.
the report says that barca are interested in a player-exchange deal, with ousmane dembele rumoured as one who could go the other way.
the 27-year-old cancelo joined manchester city in 2019 and featured 28 times in pep guardiola's title-winning campaign last season.
leeds united have identified borna barisic as a transfer target, according to football insider.
the left-back played a prominent role in steven gerrard's title win with rangers last season, starting 43 games while scoring four and assisting seven goals.
the 28-year-old is currently at euro 2020 where he is expected to start for croatia in defence.
philip billing could return to the premier league with norwich city keen on a deal for the midfielder.
the mirror says that a fee in the region of £15m will be required to land the denmark international, who started 36 times in bournemouth's league campaign last season that saw the cherries fall short on their hopes for promotion.
fc salzburg's patson daka is continuing to attract premier league interest and leicester city are the latest team to join the race.
the mirror reports that the foxes see the striker as an ideal replacement for jamie vardy for a fee in the region of £17m, though interest from liverpool and chelsea could see the austrian club raise their desired fee for their star man.
bucharest: substitutes michael gregoritsch and marko arnautovic scored late goals as austria sealed a 3-1 victory over major tournament debutants north macedonia in their group c opener at euro 2020 on sunday (jun 13).
stefan lainer put the austrians ahead early on in bucharest, but 37-year-old captain goran pandev levelled before the half-hour mark to become the second-oldest scorer in euro history and delight the vocal macedonian fans.
but gregoritsch diverted home the deciding goal 12 minutes from time and arnautovic added a third to ensure austria claimed their first-ever european championship win and struck first blood in a group also containing the netherlands and ukraine, who meet in amsterdam later in the day.
"above all, the substitutions really paid off," said austria coach franco foda.
"gregoritsch and arnautovic gave the team a new impulse.
overall i think it was a deserved win.
"austria next visit the dutch on thursday, while north macedonia stay in the romanian capital to face ukraine.
"there's no room for disappointment, we have to improve not to repeat the mistakes we've done in this game," said north macedonia coach igor angelovski.
"now we have to prepare for the next game against ukraine.
i cannot not be proud of my players who qualified for this championship.
"i feel sorry for the supporters, i'm speechless about the atmosphere they've created, i hope we will reward them.
"after a bright start by angelovski's macedonians on sunday, austria struck against the run of play in the 18th minute as right-back lainer met marcel sabitzer's cross at the back post to volley past goalkeeper stole dimitrievski.
lainer celebrated by holding up a shirt with the words "eriksen stay strong" after denmark midfielder christian eriksen suffered a cardiac arrest in their game against finland on saturday.
it was the first time austria had taken the lead in a european championship game.
they quickly threatened a second goal as sasa kalajdzic turned sabitzer's pass too close to dimitrievski.
pandev scores historic goalbut north macedonia continued to press and levelled in the 28th minute as austria goalkeeper daniel bachmann lost the ball as he slid out to collect it after some comical defending, and pandevgleefully accepted the giftto slot into an empty net.
it was a record-extending 38th goal for the former inter milan forward for his country, making him the second-oldest player to net in the tournament after austrian ivica vastic at the age of 38 against poland in 2008. foda sent on arnautovic and gregoritsch as his side dominated the early stages of the second half, but north macedonia remained a danger on the break and boban nikolov was denied on the hour mark by an onrushing bachmann.
minutes later it was austria who almost forged ahead, but gregoritsch's header was excellently palmed away by dimitrievski.
neither side sat back to protect their point, but it was the underdogs who continued to look threatening and ezgjan alioski and eljif elmas both had efforts well blocked.
austria's quality shone through in the closing stages, though, as gregoritsch nipped ahead of dimitrievski to stab home david alaba's low cross.
in the 89th minute, shanghai port forward arnautovic ran clear, rounded the goalkeeper and tapped in to give the scoreline a slightly flattering complexion.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:46 am myt

belgium's romelu lukaku celebrates scoring their third goal against russia at the gazprom arena, saint petersburg june 12, 2021.
— reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
saint petersburg, june 13 — belgium striker romelu lukaku sent a message of support to his stricken inter milan team-mate christian eriksen after scoring, as his double helped the red devils open their euro 2020 campaign with a 3-0 win over russia on saturday.
lukaku gave belgium an early lead in saint petersburg, then shouted "chris, chris, stay strong — i love you" into a pitchside camera during the celebration for his opening goal.
his club team-mate eriksen is recovering in hospital in copenhagen after collapsing on the pitch during extraordinary scenes which overshadowed denmark's 1-0 home defeat by finland in saturday's earlier group b game.
substitute thomas meunier doubled belgium's lead on 34 minutes before lukaku put the result beyond doubt with a late second goal.
belgium, the world's top-ranked team, are under pressure to deliver at the european championship as some pundits claim this is roberto martinez's last chance to win a title with an ageing squad.
yet even with manchester city playmaker kevin de bruyne and borussia dortmund midfielder axel witsel sidelined by injury, belgium were too strong for russia.
the hosts got off to a bad start when andrei semenov failed to deal with a cross by dries mertens in the build-up to the opening goal.
the ball fell to lukaku, who span away and drove his shot into the bottom far corner on 10 minutes.
belgium's timothy castagne and russia's daler kuzyaev had to be helped off following a nasty clash of heads which saw both players substituted.
meunier, castagne's replacement at right-back, grabbed belgium's second by slotting home the rebound after his dortmund team-mate thorgan hazard swung in a cross which anton shunin failed to hold.
it stayed 2-0 at the break, but russia raised the tempo in the second half as roman zobnin fired over the belgian goal.
real madrid star eden hazard replaced mertens for the final 18 minutes to lift the belgian attack.
with two minutes left, lukaku swept meunier's pass into the russian net to claim his 20th goal in his last 15 international games.
before kick-off, the belgium team were booed for taking a knee to highlight racial injustice, while their russian opponents stood.
jeers echoed around the krestovsky stadium as the entire belgian team, as well as spanish referee antonio mateu lahoz, knelt, while lukaku, whose parents come from the democratic republic of congo, raised his right fist.
england have said they will do the same for their opening game of the european championship against croatia on sunday.
ex-nfl quarterback colin kaepernick started kneeling to protest against racial injustice in 2016. the gesture has become a familiar sight across a range of sports since george floyd, who was black, was killed by a white police officer in the united states last year.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
the austrian national team will start euro 2020 with a match against the national team of northern macedonia.
the future rivals played each other in the qualifying tournament for euro 2020, both matches were won by the austrians, who are quoted as favorites for the upcoming game.
the austrian national team confidently passed the qualifying tournament for euro 2020, famously played in the league of nations 2020/21, breaking into the elite of european football, but questions to the austrians appeared in the opening matches of world cup 2022 qualification.
the team started the qualifying with a draw against scotland, continued with a 3-1 victory over the faroes.
and in the third round, the austrians were defeated on their field by the danes 4-0.  in june 2021, the austrian national team played two friendly matches, the future formal hosts of the field lost minimally to the british 0-1 and tied with slovakia 0-0.  in general, we can say that austria's once high-scoring and productive national team has been unable to score for three games or 270 minutes.
we would not have seen the northern macedonian team on the fields of euro 2020 had it not been for the new format of the continental selection and the league of nations.
the balkans won the qualifying rounds and made it to the major forum for the first time in their history.
that success boosted the national team and in qualifying for the 2022 world cup the national team of northern macedonia may well compete for a direct ticket, despite the quite decent group.
after the defeat against the romanians in qualification, the national team of northern macedonia defeated the team of liechtenstein at home 5-0 and defeated the germans 2-1 on the road.
just before the start of the euros, the balkans tied with the slovenians and defeated kazakhstan 4-0. the austrian national team has not been able to score in three consecutive matches.
however, we believe that in the first round of the european championship they will break the unpleasant streak.
it is clear that the status of the upcoming match is higher than the previous ones, and caution may prevail, but we hope for the continuation of the upward trend in this encounter.
let's not forget that the austrians have matches against ukraine and the netherlands ahead.
the austrians have no right to lose points against the group c teams, otherwise, the future formal hosts risk missing the playoffs.
in this match, we offer the following bets: both teams to score yes for 2.
25, w1 for 1.
73, tu (1.
5) for 2.
875all materials on this site are available under license creative commons attribution 4.
0 international.
you must include the name of the author (creator) of the work (material) and the party of attribution, copyright notice, license title, disclaimer notice and link to the material, if provided with the material.
other english editionsgoal takes a look at the biggest transfer news and rumours from the premier league, la liga, serie a and around the worldvakoun bayo is set to return to parent club celtic with toulouse unlikely to exercise their option to sign the ivory coast striker, reports the daily record.
bayo hit 13 goals in 35 games on loan at the ligue 2 side last season, but their failure to earn promotion back to the french top flight means they are unlikely to pursue a permanent deal.
bayo, who joined celtic from dunajská streda in 2019, made just nine appearances in two years before joining toulouse at the start of this season.
leeds are interested in lyon left-back maxwel cornet, reports the sun.
the 24-year-old first broke into the team as a forward but has excelled since being converted into an attacking full-back.
marcelo bielsa is a huge admirer of the ivory coast international, though they are reluctant to meet lyon's £20 million ($28m) asking price.
napoli have identified feyenoord's marcos senesi as a replacement for nikola maksimovic, according to todofichajes.
maksimovic will leave the italian club on a free transfer this summer and argentine defender senesi is now top of their shortlist.
however, some negotiation will be needed as napoli are not currently prepared to meet feyenoord's €20 million (£17m/$24m) valuation of the 24-year-old.
marseille have declared an interest signing brazil defender david luiz, according to la provence.
the 34-year-old is a free agent after leaving arsenal at the end of last season.
a number of mls clubs are also believed to be interested in the former chelsea player.
southampton and west ham are interested in boavista forward alberth elis, according to a bola.
the honduras international, who can play on both flanks, scored eight goals in 31 league games for boavista last season.
brighton and watford have previously been linked with the 25-year-old.
kylian mbappe says he has never asked paris saint-germain to sign a player during his time at the club, firing back at comments by president nasser al-khelaifi amid continued speculation over his future.
the france international's time at parc des princes looks to potentially be on borrowed time, with the striker's contract set to expire in 2022 and no new deal yet agreed between the ligue 1 giants and the 22-year-old.
mbappe previously admitted that he was unsure over his future, sparking comments from al-khelaifi claiming that the forward has no say over recruitment and the world cup winner has now hit back in the war of words.
read the full story on goal!arsenal, aston villa and wolves are among the sides vying for rangers star borna barisic, says football insider.
the croatia international missed out on his country's defeat to england in their euro 2020 opener but remains of interest to a host of premier league clubs.
the 28-year-old played a vital role in ending rangers' title wait this term as steven gerrard's side supplanted celtic in scotland.
italy shotstopper set for ligue 1gianluigi donnarumma has agreed personal terms for a move to paris saint-germain, per l'equipe.
the milan shotstopper has been widely tipped to leave san siro this summer and was reported to have cleared a medical over the weekend with the ligue 1 heavyweights, deposed as champions this term.
now, he will move to the french capital on a long-term deal, one which will be rubber-stamped before italy face switzerland at euro 2020 this coming week.
james rodriguez does not expect to follow carlo ancelotti back to real madrid.
there have been rumours that the coach could push madrid to sign the 29-year-old again since he replaced zinedine zidane at the helm, but rodriguez doubts that will happen.
read the full story on goal!federico dimarco had a fantastic season for hellas verona last year and returns to inter this summer.
but calciomercato claims the italian side are not convinced he has what it takes to play for simone inzaghi's team and are willing to listen to offers for him.
cagliari are showing most interest, while napoli also have an eye on him.
ac milan have made an offer to sign junior firpo, but barcelona would rather see him play in the premier league.
mundo deportivo reports the catalan side want to sell him, whereas milan want him on loan with an option to buy.
right now west ham and southampton are the two interested parties who could snap him up.
atletico madrid have offered a contract to hakan calhanoglu, sky sport claims.
he is available for free this summer as his contract at ac milan expires at the end of the month and the spanish side hope to snap him up.
leicester are keeping an eye on philippe coutinho's situation at barcelona, mundo deportivo claims.
the foxes have not decided if they will make a move for him but could make a €20 million bid or try to land him on loan.
⚒ pedrinho is a #shakhtar player!
welcome!
🧡  the midfielder signed a 5-year deal with the club.
✍️ transfer details: https://t.
co/bqidcs2osr.
pic.
twitter.
com/hfiyvccetaex-paris saint-germain and ac milan forward jeremy menez could be on the move this summer.
the 34-year-old is now at reggina in serie b but the club need to sell him for financial reasons and are currently considering offers from teams in france and russia, according to corriere dello sport.
hamadi #alghaddioui has signed a one-year contract extension, keeping him at the club until 2️⃣0️⃣2️⃣2️⃣!
✍️🤍❤️#vfb pic.
twitter.
com/9zqgzuuxfocrystal palace are planning to submit a £15 million ($21m) bid for chelsea's conor gallagher according to the sun.
the 21-year-old impressed on loan at west brom last season, and the eagles are now hoping to bring him in on a permanent deal.
gallagher would like to stay at chelsea and fight for a place in thomas tuchel's side, but he may be tempted by the prospect of guaranteed minutes at palace.
atletico madrid are eager to keep hold of manchester united-linked full-back kieran trippier according to the daily star.
the red devils have been tipped to launch a summer bid for the 30-year-old, but diego simeone wants him to remain at wanda metropolitano for at least one more season.
trippier, who spent four years at tottenham before joining atletico in 2019, has two years left to run on his contract with the spanish champions.
fiorentina are keen on signing inter midfielder stefano sensi as calcio mercato reports.
the 25-year-old has struggled with injuries at san siro, where he is contracted to remain until 2024. it has been suggested that inter could cash in on sensi this summer, with fiorentina poised to swoop.
juventus defender radu dragusin is the subject of interest from crystal palace as calcio mercato reports.
the eagles have already submitted an offer for the 19-year-old, whose current contract in turin is due to run until 2025. dragusin would prefer to stay at juventus and fight for a place in massimiliano allegri's squad next season.
tottenham chairman daniel levy has warned harry kane that he will do what's best for the club as the striker eyes a summer exit.
kane is being tipped to bring his 12-year career at spurs to an end after another trophyless campaign in 2020-21, with the 27-year-old openly admitting that he is motivated to add major silverware to his cv over the next few years.
levy understands kane's frustrations, but says he will have the final say on his future along with incoming sporting director fabio paratici.
read the full story on goal.
jesse lingard has told manchester united that he wants to stay on their books for next season according to the sun.
the 28-year-old shone during a loan spell at west ham in 2020-21 after falling down the squad pecking order at west ham.
the hammers are eager to sign lingard outright, but the midfielder has made it clear he wants to fight for a place at united after holding talks over his future with solskjaer.
paulo dybala and juventus are still at odds over a potential contract extension for the forward according to calcio mercato.
the argentine's current deal is due to expire next year and he is holding out for a new agreement in turin worth €10 million per annum.
juve are eager to keep hold of dybala, but cannot afford to match his wage demands amid the coronavirus pandemic.
manchester city are delaying a potential summer swoop for sporting lisbon left-back nuno mendes according to the mirror.
the blues won't submit an offer for the 18-year-old until after euro 2020, which could allow real madrid to steal his signature from right under their noses.
mendes helped sporting clinch the primeira liga title last term, and has four years remaining on his current deal.
everton have identified barcelona goalkeeper neto as a transfer target according to mundo deportivo.
it has been suggested that the 31-year-old is one of several first-team stars at camp nou that could be sold as the club seeks to reduce their wage bill this summer.
everton are looking at neto, whose contract at barca is due to run until 2023, to provide extra cover for no.
1 shot-stopper jordan pickford.
rangers left-back borna barisic is the subject of interest from leeds united according to football insider.
the whites are weighing up a summer bid for the 28-year-old, who is under contract at ibrox until 2024. barisic started 43 games for rangers last season, scoring four goals and laying on a further seven.
psg are still interested in achraf hakimi after €60m bid turned down, chelsea have been in contact with his agent but not advanced yet.
🇲🇦 #psg #cfc  inter are considering to sign stefan radu as new centre back he's free agent after many years at lazio.
🇷🇴 @dimarzio #interbristol city, swansea city and cardiff are all interested in free agent midfielder matty james, reports the daily mail.
the 29-year-old has departed leicester after nine years at the club, having spent last season on loan at barnsley and coventry city.
gunners trying to sign real betis stararsenal are in talks to sign real betis midfielder nabil fekir according to as.
the gunners have already submitted one offer for the 27-year-old, but the spanish outfit are demanding a much higher fee.
negotiations between the two clubs are ongoing, with arsenal having turned their attention to fekir after missing out on emi buendia, who joined aston villa from norwich last week.
crystal palace are set to make a £15 million ($21m) bid for chelsea midfielder conor gallagher, says the sun.
gallagher, 21, impressed on loan at west brom last term, proving he could handle himself in the premier league.
though gallagher is keen to prove himself at chelsea, the blues could sell if they get a bid that proves too hard to turn down.
bournemouth have made an approach to hire patrick vieira as their new head coach, the mirror reports.
the cherries have decided not to bring back jonathan woodgate after he failed to lead the side back to the premier league.
vieira has managed ligue 1 side nice and mls outfit new york city fc in his managerial career thus far.
sebastian abreu has called time on a remarkable career that saw him play for a world-record 31 clubs.
the 44-year-old former uruguay international made the announcement after joining uruguayan side sud america in march.
"the curtain comes down after 26 years," abreu said.
"i decided with conviction obviously, understanding that it is the right moment, being active, playing in the first division.
i think that is the way, the team is well, it is the right time.
"leicester city have joined the race for red bull salzburg star patson daka, reports the express.
the 22-year-old has a host of premier league clubs chasing his signature after scoring 27 goals in 28 league games for the austrian champions in 2020-21. ashley young is leaning towards a return to the premier league with burnley, reports the mirror.
the 35-year-old will be a free agent at the end of june and has yet to sign a new contract with inter.
though inter are keen on bringing young back, he could opt for a return to his home country with the clarets.
the red devils saw their first offer rejectedmanchester united will make a new move for borussia dortmund star jadon sancho, reports the times.
dortmund rejected united's initial offer for the england winger, but the red devils are confident they will get a deal over the line.
the bundesliga side are looking for a transfer fee of £77.
5 million ($109m) and plus an additional £10.
5m ($15m) in add-ons.
the lyon attacker has been on ronald koeman's radar for a whilememphis depay will be announced as a barcelona player within the next week, claims sport.
he will be brought in on a free transfer, though his wages are expected to be significant.
the 27-year-old is currently at euro 2020 with the netherlands, so announcing the deal in the near future would mean doing so in the middle of the tournament.
marcelo is likely to be sold by real madrid in the upcoming transfer window, and everton and leeds united are among the teams who could make an offer for him, according to the mirror.
the 33-year-old left-back is not in carlo ancelotti's plans, but his vast footballing experience could make him an asset in england.
tyc sports says monterrey have come to an agreement to purchase esteban andrada from boca juniors for about $6 million.
the goalkeeper allowed just 13 goals in 34 matches across all competitions this past season.
gigi buffon is close to join parma!
he could come back to the club where he started his career 26 years ago.
🇮🇹 #buffon  talks ongoing buffon received more than five proposals, one from besiktas too but he's really tempted to sign for parma with an ambitious project.
🧤 #parma pic.
twitter.
com/yywu7i3ze2borussia dortmund will be able to automatically renew midfielder jude bellingham's contract once he turns 18 years old, reveals bild.
the teenage sensation is set to play a key role for england at euro 2020 and is considered one of the best prospects in europe.
his deal, once automatically extended, will run until 2025. ufc mega-star khabib nurmagomedov has said he is thinking about accepting a professional offer to play football.
"if some clubs offer me [a deal] and they make me an interesting [offer], i'm going to accept this," he told his social media following on facebook.
the undefeated pro mma fighter is currently retired from combat sports.
the talented playmaker feels he no longer has enough of a role under pep guardiolabernardo silva wants to leave manchester city, writes duncan castles, as he no longer has the starring role he craves following the breakout of phil foden and brilliant return to top form of ilkay gundogan, not to mention the presence of other creative players such as raheem sterling, riyad mahrez and kevin de bruyne.
the portugal international is sure to draw plenty of interest, and atletico madrid and barcelona are already said to be checking in on his availability.
a deal with barcelona could potentially include ousmane dembele being sent to england as part of the return for bernardo.
copyright © 2021 goal (singapore) all rights reserved.
the information contained in goal (singapore) may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed without the prior written authority of goal (singapore)
cheers and applause quickly drowned out some boos as england players kneeled on sunday in an anti-racism gesture at kick-off against croatia in their euro 2020 opener at wembley.
london, england: cheers and applause quickly drowned out some boos as england players kneeled on sunday in an anti-racism gesture at kick-off against croatia in theireuro 2020 opener at wembley.
england players were shocked by jeering at the gesture from a minority of fans in two friendlies prior to the tournament.
manager gareth southgate, prime minister boris johnson and leading football figures had appealed for a stop to that.
once again, there was some jeering from a small section as players briefly went down on one knee, but many others among the 25,000 crowd in a sun-kissed wembley began applauding and cheering.
the gesture, borrowed from american nfl quarterback colin kaepernick and popularised by the black lives matter movement last year, has generated off-field controversy around europe in the build-up to the 24-nation euros.
critics view it as an unwanted politicization of sport and expression of sympathy with far-left politics.
but england players and other national teams also taking the knee say it is simply a show of solidarity against racial discrimination still prevalent in football and around the world.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

you can choose which categories you want to be notified for.
the chinese team dominated the event from game one.
for the second straight dota pro circuit, a dominant chinese team defeated evil geniuses in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd swept eg today to claim the weplay esports animajor title, $200,000, and 500 dpc points.
lgd battled through the group stage, earning a top seed and a spot in the upper bracket of the playoffs, where they defeated alliance, nigma, and t1 before ending their run with a 3-0 sweep of north america's top team.
congratulations @psgesports 🏆🏆you are the weplay animajor champions!
#weplayanimajor #animajor pic.
twitter.
com/71xs56vxz3eg, who also earned a spot in the playoffs through the group stage, tore through the lower bracket to reach the grand finals.
their run included ending noping e-sports, tnc predator, and nigma's chances at directly qualifying for the international 10, and beating both vici gaming and t1 to reach the animajor's summit.
despite being swept, eg kept things competitive in the final two games of the series after being blown out in game one.
the na team led for more than 40 minutes in game two but failed to close things out, losing the biggest fight of the series and dropping to 0-2.
"but what did it cost?""everything.
"after stealing the aegis, @evilgeniuses loses the fight against @psgesports and it costs them the game!
👾now, psg.
lgd leads the series 2-0.  will they be able to close it out on the next map?
🧐🧐#weplayanimajor #animajor pic.
twitter.
com/9vwyv7aww9lgd finished third at the one esports singapore major earlier this season, losing to eg in the upper bracket finals before being eliminated by the eventual tournament winners, invictus gaming.
eg fell just short of beating ig at the previous major and now take another second-place finish behind a top chinese squad.
both lgd and eg were already locked in as the top two seeds for ti10 prior to reaching the finals and will now prepare to battle for their share of more than $40 million in sweden starting on aug.  5.
© 2021 dot esports
the 27-year-old has scored 12 goals and registered 13 assists in 71 appearances for betis since joining the la liga outfit from lyon in 2019. there has been a host of speculation surrounding the attacker's future in recent weeks, with the green and whites seemingly facing a tough battle to keep hold of him this summer.
according to as, arsenal are in discussions with fekir's spanish club over a potential move, and the gunners have already submitted at least one offer for his services.
however, the report claims that betis are demanding a much higher fee and will not allow him to leave unless their asking price, which has not been specified, is met.
the frenchman was strongly linked with liverpool before leaving lyon for los verdiblancos.
novak djokovic didn't throw his racket to the sky after rallying for a five-set victory in the french open final.
he didn't tuck it away as a cherished souvenir, either.
instead, djokovic walked over to the roland garros stands and handed it to a youngster who was part coach, part fan and all heart during the match with stefanos tsitsipas.
the boy was delirious with disbelief and joy, the moment one of those purely celebratory sports encounters between superstar and fan.
afterward, djokovic explained that his gesture was a reward to a fan who had remained in his corner even when he lost the first two sets and appeared headed for defeat.
he didn't say it, but perhaps it was also djokovic's acknowledgment that he isn't always a fan favorite.
"i don't know the boy, but he was in my ear the entire match, basically.
especially when i was two-sets-to-love down, he was encouraging me; he was actually giving me tactics as well," djokovic told reporters with a laugh.
"he was like: 'hold your serve.
get an easy first ball and then dictate.
go to his backhand.
'novak djokovic battles back in french open final for 19th grand slam win"he was coaching me, literally, and i found that very cute and very nice.
to give the racket to the best person — it was him — after the match, that was kind of my gratitude for him sticking with me and supporting me.
"djokovic secured his 19th grand slam win — and his second of 2021 — and will try at wimbledon to tie the record of 20 held by roger federer and rafael nadal.
read more from the post:novak djokovic outlasts rafael nadal in a french open classic semifinalbarbora krejcikova honors late coach and wins a french open filled with twists and upsetsthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
paris: stefanos tsitsipas has learnt the hard way over the last two months that novak djokovic and rafa nadal will take some shifting from the top of the men's game.
the greek led world number one djokovic by two sets in the french open final on sunday, but still ended up losing and it has become a familiar feeling to be so close and yet so far.
tsitsipas led djokovic in the rome masters quarter-finals this year, but lost.
he also pushed 13-time french open champion nadal to three tight sets in the barcelona open final, but again fell short.
the 22-year-old, who was looking to become the first greek player to win a grand slam title, is, however, confident that he is on the right path to break the dominance of the two players who have won 11 of the last 12 majors.
"i'm able to play for titles like this.
despite my loss today, i have faith in my game.
i very much believe i can get to that point very soon," tsitsipas told reporters after his 6-7(6) 2-6 6-3 6-2 6-4 defeat on court philippe chatrier.
"i was close today.
every opponent is difficult.
there's a small difference between the player i played today and the ones from before.
"but i think with the same attitude and the same if i don't downgrade myself, i see no reason for me not to be holding that trophy one day.
"on sunday, he was left to wonder how djokovic had turned his game around after losing the second set.
"what i learned today is that no matter what, in order for the match to be finished, you have to win three sets and not two.
two sets doesn't really mean anything.
it's still one away from winning the entire match," said tsitsipas.
"i don't think i changed much.
i just kept the same pace.
i kept the things that were working for me.
but it ended up, i don't know, he left the court after two sets to love down, i don't know what happened there, but he came back to me like a different player suddenly.
"djokovic took an off-court break after the loss of the second set and when he returned, the match was a different affair altogether.
asked if he felt that djokovic was physically much better all of a sudden, tsitsipas said: "felt physically, anticipation maybe, just movement on the court, everything felt much more fresh and much better than before.
"i don't know.
i kind of felt like he could read my game a bit better suddenly.
good for him.
he did well to get there.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
13 june 2021
holland's long awaited return to tournament football starts todayhaving failed to qualify for the last two major tournaments, the dutch return to the international big time this evening as they face the ukraine in amsterdam in this group c match up.
read on for your guide to watching a netherlands vs ukraine live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the match pits two legends of yesteryear on the playing field that are now plying their trade in the dug outs against each other, with legendary dutch defender frank de boer attempting to outwit former ac milan and chelsea striker andriy shevchenko.
date: sunday, june 13kick-off time: 9pm cet / 8pm bst / 3pm et / 12pm pt / 5am aest / 7am nzstvenue: johan cruyff arena, amsterdam, netherlandsfree live stream: itv hub (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freethe netherlands look in good shape coming into this tournament, with oranje's looking impressive in a 3-0 win over willy sagnol's georgia in their final warm-up game.
ukraine also looked in fine form in their last build-up match,  beating ten-man cyprus 4-0 on monday in a match that saw west ham united forward andriy yarmolenko score a brace, with man city midfielder oleksandr zinchenko also getting on the scoresheet.
read on for how to watch an netherlands vs ukraine live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with this match between netherlands v ukraine being shown live on itv1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, netherlands vs ukraine is being shown on itv1 (stv in scotland), with kick-off set for 8pm bst.
the build-up starts at 7.
10pm.
as it's itv, anyone located in the uk can tune in for free you'll be in possession of a valid uk tv licence, of course.
for added on-the-go viewing convenience, you can also live stream netherlands vs ukraine free by firing up itv hub, which has an excellent app that's available on nearly anything that plugs in these days just give it a search on your device, phone or console of choice.
not in the uk right now?
no worries just use a vpn to port yourself back home, then watch live as usual.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this group c match.
kick-off stateside is at 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream netherlands vs ukraine directly through the espn website.
how to watch netherlands vs ukraine without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 5am aest on monday morning.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
netherlands vs ukraine will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a netherlands vs ukraine live stream, with kick-off set for 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with netherlands vs ukraine set to start at 7am nzst on monday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
england manager gareth southgate may have just altered the course of the three lions' euro 2020 history.
no team have played in as many european championship games as england who are making their 10th finals appearance without ever reaching the final.
until last night's 1-0 win over croatia in their group d opener, the class of 2021 appeared destined to become the latest chapter of a seemingly never-ending hard luck story of self-defeatism.
but with a mix of bold choices and selection gambles, southgate might have changed that.
raheem sterling's 57th-minute strike, pouncing onto a through-ball from influential leeds united midfielder kalvin phillips, breathed new life into a flagging three lions team who had resolutely attempted to take the game to their ageing visitors in the first half.
the manchester city forward's inclusion in the starting line-up itself had already sparked consternation, with southgate lambasted before the game for choosing a player who had grown up in the shadow of wembley, ahead of jack grealish and jadon sancho.
yet, the england manager's gamble paid off handsomely as he ended an unflattering sequence of nine winless opening group salvos in the continent's flagship tournament.
he refused to bow to public pressure and persevered with a player whose track record of scoring for his country had produced a flawless return of 10 previous victories.
southgate can also claim vindication for favouring protectionism over panache with kieran trippier's rare deployment at left-back raising eyebrows and questions alike.
prior to staring down zlatko dalic's charges, he had played in the role on just four previous occasions, with the previous weekend's friendly win over austria the most recent.
having the inside knowledge to nullify atletico madrid teammate sime vrsaljko, operating on the right side of defence, saw trippier chosen over the in-form duo of luke shaw and ben chilwell.
hindsight suggests that southgate's boldness reaped a deserved reward as trippier rarely appeared troubled by croatia's three-pronged attack while right-back kyle walker recovered from a shaky first-half to shackle ivan perisic and josko gvardiol.
for a time, this maiden group d encounter was in danger of following a similar pattern for england.
as the clock ticked down towards the interval, phil foden's early effort that crashed against the base of dominik livakovic's right-hand post increasingly faded from memory with luka modric and mateo kovacic taking turns to wrest back control from their hosts.
once temperatures soared at england's national stadium, however, the black-shirted croatians wilted.
they struggled to contain the omnipotent threat posed by sterling, phillips as well as second-half substitutes marcus rashford and jude bellingham.
southgate's willingness to trust his instincts has further shifted the perception of the englishman, who has made the job his own these past 41⁄2 years.
before last night, no england manager had the presence of mind to field a starting line-up devoid of liverpool or manchester united players at a major tournament, since the euro 1992 clash against against france.
refusing to pander solely to representatives of the english premier league's traditional big six is an indication of southgate's willingness to place his hopes in the new brightest and best.
that should mean more minutes for the likes of phillips, aston villa's tyrone mings the first villan to start for england at the euros since southgate himself played against germany in 1996 and west ham united midfielder declan rice.
full-throated renditions of "football's coming home" at the final whistle may still be somewhat premature but england have never been in a stronger position to deliver.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen • denmark playmaker christian eriksen remained in hospital yesterday but is in a "stable" condition after collapsing during his country's euro 2020 group b game against finland on saturday, the danish football union (dbu) said.
"this morning, we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his team-mates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination," it tweeted.
the 29-year-old player suffered a cardiac arrest, the team doctor confirmed, but the reason remained unclear.
"he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation)," dr morten boesen told a news conference, adding that eriksen remained in hospital for further tests.
"the exams that have been done so far look fine.
we don't have an explanation to why it happened.
"the dbu also said that the team and staff had "received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident".
the news will have come as relief to eriksen's current and former teammates, many of whom wished him well.
the inter milan midfielder collapsed in the 43rd minute of denmark's euro 2020 opener, laying motionless on the pitch as medical personnel performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr).
captain simon kjaer reportedly helped to clear eriksen's airways first and started cpr before medics took over.
goalkeeper kasper schmeichel was seen consoling eriksen's wife sabrina kvist.
both players earned widespread praise as heroes.
the game was suspended temporarily but after receiving confirmation that eriksen was all right and in a stable condition and awake, uefa gave the danes an option to resume the game shortly or restart yesterday at noon local time.
1.  fabrice muambathe bolton man collapsed during an fa cup match in 2012 due to a cardiac arrest and was technically "dead" for 78 minutes before he was revived.
the former england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
2.  antonio puertathe sevilla midfielder collapsed during a spanish la liga match in 2007 and again in the dressing room.
he was rushed to hospital, where he died three days later of multiple organ failure due to cardiac arrest at the age of 22.
3.  marc-vivien foethe cameroon midfielder, 28, died during a confederations cup match in 2003.  medical staff failed to restart his heart on the pitch and he was pronounced dead.
reutersthe former tottenham star was said to have told his teammates to return to the field and denmark coach kasper hjulmand also insisted there was no pressure from uefa, but some felt the game should have been called off and rescheduled to a later date.
manchester united great peter, the danish custodian's father, told the bbc: "it's a ridiculous decision by uefa.
they should have tried to work out a different scenario and shown a little bit of compassion, and they didn't.
"when the game resumed, the atmosphere at parken stadium was considerably muted and the hosts appeared to be distracted, slipping to a 1-0 defeat courtesy of joel pohjanpalo's second-half winner.
the header was one that kasper would normally have saved as it was straight at him, while kjaer had to be taken off in the 63rd minutes as the defender was too "overwhelmed" to continue.
denmark's yussuf poulsen won a penalty when he went down under slight contact in the 73rd minute.
in the absence of usual spot-kick taker eriksen, pierre-emile hojbjerg assumed the responsibility but the midfielder could only hit his penalty straight at finland goalkeeper lukas hradecky and hjulmand later admitted that his players were "traumatised".
in the aftermath of the shocking event, conspiracy theories sprung up on the internet, suggesting that eriksen had previously contracted covid-19 and had been vaccinated.
but inter director giuseppe marotta dismissed those claims, saying there was no truth behind them, while eriksen's former cardiologist, dr sanjay sharma of st george's, university of london, added he had no heart issues during his seven-season spell at spurs.
the dbu yesterday called off a scheduled press conference while the team's next training session was postponed indefinitely, local broadcaster tv2 reported.
agence france-presse, reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
london: fabrice muamba has spoken about how watching christian eriksen receive life-saving treatment at euro 2020 brought back emotional memories of his own cardiac arrest as a doctor warned the dane was unlikely to play again.
eriksen received cpras his distraught teammates formed a circle around him to shield the stricken player from the view of 16,000 stunned fans in copenhagen on saturday.
the finns won 1-0 thanks to a joel pohjanpalo header in their first-ever appearance in the european championship but eriksen's plight overshadowed the match.
muamba, the former bolton midfielder who collapsed after suffering a cardiac arrest during a televised fa cup game in 2012, tweeted "please god" following the incident.
"to watch it from that distance and not knowing the expectation of what was going to happen -- it's scary," he told the bbc.
"it's credit to the medical staff that they've come in and they did an amazing job on christian.
"muamba said he was impressed by how eriksen's teammates had surrounded him to "protect the whole situation".
"it just brought back emotion that you've literally put down there for a long time that you don't want to re-live," he said.
"to see it on the other side, when it happened i asked my missus 'how did you even cope knowing this has happened to me'?
"i'm hoping that things turn out to be ok for him.
i really, really, really hope he comes through.
"cardiologist warninga sports cardiologist who previously worked with eriksen at tottenham said the midfielder, now at inter milan, was unlikely to play again.
"clearly something went terribly wrong," sanjay sharma, professor of sports cardiology at st george's, university of london, told the press association agency.
"but they managed to get him back.
the question is what happened?
and why did it happen?
"this guy had normal tests all the way up to 2019 so how do you explain this cardiac arrest?
"sharma, who chairs the football association's expert cardiac consensus group, said there were multiple reasons a cardiac arrest could have happened, such as high temperatures or an unidentified condition.
but he said reports after the match that eriksen, 29, was awake in hospital were "a very good sign".
"i'm very pleased," he said.
"the fact he's stable and awake, his outlook is going to be very good.
i don't know whether he'll ever play football again.
"without putting it too bluntly, he died today, albeit for a few minutes, but he did die and would the medical professional allow him to die again?
the answer is no.
"former tottenham player and manager glenn hoddle, who suffered a cardiac arrest while working for tv in 2018, tweeted: "thank god christian is ok.  and to those who did the cpr, it's simple, you saved his life as i know so well.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
12 june 2021
two tournament dark horses bring plenty of talent to euro 2020robert page's welsh side kick off their euro 2020 group a campaign this afternoon against switzerland as they look to emulate their superb last showing in a major tournament.
read on for your guide to watching a wales vs switzerland live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the welsh enjoyed an incredible run in france five years ago where they beat tournament favourites belgium before eventually being beaten by tournament winners portugal in the semi-final.
date: saturday, june 12kick-off time: 2pm bst / 3pm cet / 9am et / 6am pt / 11pm aest / 1am nzst (sun)venue: baku olympic stadium, baku, azerbaijanfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freewhile their warm-up preparations for euro 2020 haven't been ideal they were beaten by france, albeit with ten men and then failed to break down a battling albanian side in cardiff a team that possesses the attacking threat of gareth bale , and aaron ramsey should not be discounted.
the swiss come into this tournament in excellent form, having won their last six matches, the most recent victory an emphatic 7-0 thrashing of liechtenstein.
much of their hopes for this tournament may rest on striker haris seferovic who has been in sparkling form for benfica this season.
read on for how to watch an wales vs switzerland live stream for free today.
in the uk, this euro 2020 clash between wales and switzerland is being shown on bbc one along with welsh-language channel s4c.
coverage on both channels starts at 1.
15pm bst, with kick-off set to follow at 2pm bst.
you can also live stream both channel's coverage of wales vs switzerland for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this game.
kick-off stateside is at 9am et / 6am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream wales vs switzerland directly through the espn website.
how to watch wales vs switzerland without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 11pm aest.
an optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
wales vs switzerland will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a wales vs switzerland live stream, with kick-off set for 9am et / 6am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
kick off time for wales vs switzerland in new zealand is at a somewhat inconvenient 7am nzst on sunday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.

glenn price

@glennprice94


                                    xherdan shaqiri provided an assist as switzerland opened their euro 2020 campaign by drawing 1-1 with wales on saturday.
the liverpool attacker's corner was headed in by breel embolo early in the second half, before he was then withdrawn in the 66th minute.
but the group a encounter ended in a draw thanks to kieffer moore's equaliser, with harry wilson and neco williams both unused substitutes for wales.

you can choose which categories you want to be notified for.
the regional qualifiers are going to be stacked.
nigma remained the only team in the weplay esports animajor that had yet to receive an invite to the international 10, with a shot at qualifying for the dota 2 event if they finished in the top two at the event.
but they will now need to play in the regional qualifier after being eliminated 2-1 by evil geniuses today.
nigma, along with quincy crew and vici gaming were knocked out of the event, with nigma and qc tying for fifth, while vici finished in fourth.
because nigma were eliminated, the top 12 teams by dota pro circuit points have already been decided, ensuring thunder predator will be attending ti10 without competing in the regional qualifier.
ti 10 players #feelthethunder@valvesoftware @dota2 pic.
twitter.
com/a6fnasnp1ahere are all 12 teams that are locked in for a trip to the big stage in sweden this august.
the international 10 pro circuit qualifications.
#ti10 #dota2 pic.
twitter.
com/dwiajwodtain total, this means china will have five teams competing at ti10—the most of any region—after taking into account the regional qualifiers.
north america, south america, and europe will each have three teams, while cis and southeast asia will both get two.
some combination of eg, lgd, and t1 will make up the top three spots in the animajor standings, though eg should hold onto the top seed at ti10 regardless of who wins.
© 2021 dot esports
london: goran pandev scored north macedonia's first major tournament goal in their opening euro 2020 game against austria on sunday (jun 13), becoming the second-oldest scorer in european championship history.
pandev profited from a mix-up in the austrian defence to guide an easy finish into an unguarded net after 28 minutes, levelling the score at 1-1 after stefan lainer's volleyed opener.
at the age of 37 years and 321 days, pandev became the second-oldest player to score at the euros, behind austria's ivica vastic, who was 38 years and 257 days old when he netted against poland in 2008. north macedonia are competing in their first major tournament and pandev's goal came just over 20 years after his international debut on june 6, 2001. the genoa striker retired from international football in 2013 but was persuaded to return three years later.
he scored the goal that secured his country's qualification in a 1-0 uefa nations league playoff final against georgia in november.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
amsterdam (afp) denzel dumfries scored a dramatic late winner as the netherlands marked their long-awaited return to a major tournament with a 3-2 victory over ukraine in a remarkable euro 2020 game in amsterdam on sunday (june 13).
dumfries, the psv eindhoven full-back, headed in a cross from substitute nathan ake to complete a madcap second half after the home side eased into a two-goal lead and then threw it away.
captain georginio wijnaldum and wout weghorst both scored before the hour mark in front a raucous crowd at the johan cruyff arena, only for ukraine to silence the home supporters as andriy yarmolenko and roman yaremchuk netted to briefly restore parity.
frank de boer's side got there in the end and the victory will provide a major lift to the netherlands after what was their first game at a major competition in seven years.
they will now hope to build on it on thursday against austria, who beat north macedonia earlier in bucharest in the same group c. it was a brilliant game, and a crowd of around 16,000 created an atmosphere fit for the occasion at the home of ajax, where supporters held up banners with messages of support for christian eriksen following the denmark star's cardiac arrest on saturday.
eriksen made his name at ajax before moving to tottenham hotspur in 2013. after failing to qualify for euro 2016 or the 2018 world cup in russia, the netherlands were playing their first game at a major competition since beating hosts brazil 3-0 to claim third place at the 2014 world cup.
they had not won a game at a euro in almost exactly 13 years, since klaas-jan huntelaar and robin van persie netted in a 2-0 win over romania at euro 2008. the emergence of the likes of frenkie de jong and matthijs de ligt has given supporters of the oranje new hope for the future.
those supporters were in fine spirits ahead of the game, bedecked in orange as they filled the bars around the ground in the blazing sunshine, thoughts of the pandemic appearing far away.
yet dutch optimism has been tempered by selection problems facing coach de boer.
juventus defender de ligt watched this game from the stand as he recovers from a groin injury, his absence added to that of fellow centre-back star virgil van dijk who is absent from the tournament with the serious knee injury that cut short his season with liverpool.
manchester united's donny van de beek withdrew from the squad because of injury and first-choice goalkeeper jasper cillessen was left out altogether after testing positive for covid-19.
de boer has switched to a 3-5-2 formation and he has real stars in barcelona midfielder frenkie de jong as well as memphis depay up front.
the system has helped wijnaldum – who will join paris saint-germain from liverpool after the euro – develop into a real goal-scoring threat from midfield while dumfries was a constant threat down the right flank.
he should have scored late in the first half when he contrived to put a free header wide, after ukraine goalkeeper georgiy bushchan had produced a fine save to keep out a deflected wijnaldum volley.
the hosts got their reward shortly after the restart when bushchan turned a dangerous low ball into the box by dumfries out into the path of wijnaldum who fired home.
weghorst then lashed in a loose ball that came to him following more havoc wrought by dumfries, and the netherlands seemed to be on easy street.
maarten stekelenburg, at 38 the oldest player ever to represent the netherlands at a major tournament, had not had much to do but then he was beaten in the 75th minute by a brilliant curling strike from yarmolenko, the west ham united winger.
yaremchuk then headed in a ruslan malinovskyi free-kick and ukraine – whose build-up to the tournament was overshadowed by a row about patriotic slogans on their shirt which upset russia – looked set to leave with a draw, but then dumfries appeared.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

japantoday
higashi-azabu is bldg, 4f
					1-8-1 higashi-azabu
					minato-ku
					tokyo 106-0044
					japan
					tel: +81 3 5561 7755
					fax: +81 3 5561 7756
email: editor@japantoday.
com
©2021 gplusmedia inc. 
sections of fans at wembley stadium booed england players for taking a knee before the european championship game against croatia on sunday.
the boos, which could be heard over those fans applauding, came despite pleas from the team to respect the anti-racism gesture.
croatia's players did not take a knee as expected ahead of the group d game, which england won 1-0.
"everybody should cheer for england," british prime minister boris johnson said a short time later at the g7 summit, while not saying if he would take a knee if he was a player.
some england fans claim taking a knee is a political act but the english football association said again ahead of the team's opening euro 2020 match that the gesture is important to them and should be respected.
there had been booing at england's two warmup games for the tournament that were played in middlesbrough.
"they are doing this as a mechanism of peacefully protesting against discrimination, injustice and inequality," the fa said in a statement to fans.
"this is personally important to the players and the values the team collectively represents.
this gesture of unity and fighting against inequality can be traced back as far as the 18th century.
"it is not new, and english football has made it very clear that it does not view this as being aligned to a political organisation or ideology.
there can be no doubt as to why the players are taking the knee and what it represents in a footballing context.
"the jeering was by some fans who also chanted "no surrender" during the national anthem.
that's a dated reference to the conflict endured for generations that saw britain hit by terrorist attacks from the irish republic army.
croatia's national anthem was also booed by some of the 22,500 fans allowed into wembley, which could lead to the country's soccer association being fined by uefa.
100% online and fully accredited, level 7 qualification for board directors.
over six months, develop the skills to become a confident and truly effective board membercroatia's national anthem was also booed by some of the 22,500 fans allowed into wembleythat is generous.
i could hardly hear that anthem over the booing.
may have been the coverage though, and different at the match.
good on the england players for drawing attention to a cause that has meaning for them.
get politics out of sport.
just play the game.
the boos were drowned out by most of the fans applauding.
great match, england were great.
well they were booing because the knee taking means nothing.
i stand with wilfred zaha on that issue.
what do we expect with one of the most reactionary right-wing governments ever?they took the knee and sterling took the boot!ludditetoday  07:56 am jstthe boos were drowned out by most of the fans applauding.
yes, that's what i heard on my tv.
a timely reminder that the edl/bnp/ukip knuckle draggers are a small minority.
mickelicioustoday  08:29 am jstwhat do we expect with one of the most reactionary right-wing governments ever?every time this topic is raised with lying johnson i expect him to say, "gosh.
look, yes.
jolly good.
fine people on both sides.
certainly.
i think.
"ludditetoday  07:56 am jstgreat match, england were great.
there were indeed.
raheem awoke from his lengthy slumber to score the winner, kalvin philips bossed the midfield, mount was terrific and the stockport iniesta hit the post.
even pickford looked comfortable!
the scotland game should be a cracker.
good for the players supporting efforts to stop racism.
the irony is, it was a black man sterling who won the game for england.
i bet a lot of the thousands of racist scum who were booing, cheered when that black man scored.
hypocrites.
get politics out of sport.
just play the game.
i agree with this.
let's get politics out of work in general, unless of course our work is concerned with politics.
let's be professionals.
what do we expect with one of the most reactionary right-wing governments ever?feed working class fans a diet of chip butties, larger and late night curries, what do you expect?that is generous.
i could hardly hear that anthem over the booing.
england fans have been booing the opponent's national anthem for as long as i can remember despite calls from almost every england manager for them to stop.
i can think of no nation that does it.
it's pretty shameful, some basic respect should be shown, even when we play the argies.
i also think it must give the other team a bit of a lift, makes them eager to shut us up.
use your facebook account to login or register with japantoday.
by doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
100% online and fully accredited, level 7 qualification for board directors.
over six months, develop the skills to become a confident and truly effective board membera mix of what's trending on our other sites
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot travel
england manager gareth southgate's selection of raheem sterling paid off with the manchester city forward scoring in their 1-0 win over croatia in last night's euro 2020 group d opener at wembley.
"i'm so pleased for raheem.
he was dangerous all game.
his goalscoring record suggests we should have faith in him and i think he was motivated to show that," southgate said.
sterling, who grew up in the shadow of wembley, said he knew he would break his duck for england in major tournaments when given the chance to play at the national stadium.
"i always said if i played at wembley in a major tournament, i'm scoring.
i had to score in my back garden and delighted to do that," said sterling.
his strike ensured england won their opening game at a european championship for the first time in 10 attempts.
the 26-year-old's place had been under threat from jack grealish and marcus rashford after a disappointing end to the season with manchester city.
with liverpool defensive midfielder jordan henderson still not match fit, southgate opted for leeds united's kalvin phillips, who helped to stifle the croats and provided the pass for sterling's goal.
"phillips is a player who is so understated.
.
.
i thought he was immense throughout the game," said southgate.
england next face scotland on saturday morning (singapore time), with croatia meeting the czech republic.
afpget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
loading.
.
.
monday, 14 jun 2021 05:14 am myt

serbia's novak djokovic celebrates with the trophy after winning the french open against greece's stefanos tsitsipas at roland garros, paris june 13, 2021.
— reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
paris, june 14 — for the second time in six years novak djokovic is halfway to a calendar year sweep of all four grand slam titles after winning the french open for a second time on sunday.
the 34-year-old dug deep into his reserves of resilience to hit back from two sets down against greece's stefanos tsitsipas to win 6-7(6) 2-6 6-3 6-2 6-4 and increase his grand slam tally to 19. that takes him only one behind the men's record 20 held by rafa nadal and roger federer and there is nothing to suggest the world number one will not surpass his two career rivals.
he can already claim something neither of those two can, after his win over the 22-year-old tsitsipas made him the first player in the professional era to win each of the four grand slams at least twice.
having already claimed the australian open this year, he has a shot at becoming the first man to win all four majors in the same year since rod laver in 1969 and he could even complete a 'golden slam' by adding the olympic title in tokyo.
"everything is possible," djokovic told reporters.
"i've achieved some things that a lot of people thought it would be not possible for me to achieve.
everything is possible, and i did put myself in a good position to go for the golden slam.
but, you know, i was in this position in 2016 as well.
"it ended up in a third-round loss in wimbledon.
"wimbledon returns later this month after last year's tournament was cancelled because of the pandemic.
djokovic won it in 2019 and will be the favourite to add a sixth title on the grass, after which he will turn his thoughts to the olympic games and the us open.
"obviously i will enjoy this win and then think about wimbledon in a few days' time.
i don't have an issue to say that i'm going for the title in wimbledon," he said.
"of course i am.
i won in '18 and '19 there.
hopefully i can keep that run going.
"as far as chasing down federer and nadal, djokovic said he has always considered it a possibility despite the fact that when he won his second grand slam title at the 2011 australian open, nadal had nine and federer was on 16.
"i never thought it was a mission impossible to reach the grand slams of these guys," djokovic said.
"i mean, i'm not there, but it's one less.
but they are still playing.
"obviously they're playing great, especially rafa with his level.
we all have still opportunities at wimbledon, all the other slams.
i'll keep on going.
i'll keep on chasing.
at the same time i'll keep on paving my own path.
"his long-time coach marian vajda joked after sunday's comeback win that he and goran ivanisevic, who is also part of the team, would retire if djokovic won the calendar slam.
"i think it is possible, much more possible.
he loves to play in wimbledon and us open," he told reporters.
"as much as novak is healthy, and he's healthy right now, he's in great shape, i think he has ability to win the grand slam for this year.
i'm pretty sure.
"it did not look likely when djokovic trailed by two sets against an inspired tsitsipas on sunday — the effort of beating nadal in a seismic semi-final appearing to catch up on him.
but djokovic said some words of wisdom from a young fan helped him out.
"i don't know the boy.
he was in my ear the entire match basically, especially when i was two sets to love down.
he was encouraging me.
he was actually giving me tactics," djokovic, who presented the excited fan with his racket at the end, said.
"he was like, 'hold your serve, get an easy first ball, then dictate, go to his backhand'.
he was coaching me literally.
i found that very cute, very nice. "
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
nabil fekir will set suitors arsenal back 'a lot of money' this summer, according to real betis sporting director antonio cordon.
fekir has long been linked with a move to north london and they seem undeterred by his underwhelming production in recent times.
during the 2017/2018 season the attacking midfielder was electric for lyon, registering 18 goals and seven assists, form that attracted strong interest from liverpool.
however, over the past two seasons he has managed just 12 la liga goals for betis.
but while his productivity has waned, the club still consider him one of their most important players.
according to as, manuel pellegrini views fekir as someone he wants to build his attack around next season.
his importance has also been espoused by betis' sporting director.
asked about the interest in fekir, cordon said: "in no club in the world is there is a non-transferable player.
for us, it is a cornerstone to have him and keep him, if someone wants to come for him, they will have to pay a lot of money.
"cristiano ronaldo's agents have reached out to man utd, psg and real madrid to discuss the likelihood of a transfer away from juventus this summer.
antonio conte has suggested he turned down the chance to become tottenham manager because he was not convinced by their long-term project.
remembering antonio conte's overhead kick in italy's 2-1 win over turkey at euro 2000. sergio ramos wants to sign a one-year contract at real madrid but may not be offered it after clashing with president florentino perez.
finances are not the only roadblock for a potential deal either; it is thought that fekir has no desire to leave betis during the upcoming transfer window.
the news is a blow to arsenal, who have earmarked him as martin odegaard's successor.
the norwegian arrived on loan from real madrid in january but that deal has now expired.
the gunners had wanted to make the deal permanent but the transfer seems unlikely.
the summer could be a busy one for arsenal.
not only are they looking to strengthen following a poor season, they also want to trim the squad.
hector bellerin and alexandre lacazette have both been linked with exits while granit xhaka's departure to jose mourinho's roma is imminent.
â© 2021 minute media all rights reserved
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
13 june 2021
group c clash could go either wayit may not be the first game on every euro 2020's wish list, but this group c match holds the intrigue of seeing two teams looking to register their nations' first ever european championship victory.
read on for your guide to watching a austria vs north macedonia live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
date: sunday, june 13kick-off time: 6pm cet / 5pm bst / 12pm et / 9am pt / 2am aest / 4am nzstvenue: the arena nationala, bucharest, romaniafree live stream: itv hub (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freenorth macedonia booked their debut appearance in the tournament via a uefa nations league playoff final win over georgia last november.
igor angelovski's side stand as outsiders for making it past the group stage, but are capable of a surprise, as demonstrated by their shock victory over germany back in march.
austria have failed to win a single match in their two previous appearances in the european championships, having failed to live up to their billing of dark horses five years ago.
with the big name attacking threat of marko arnautovic, sasa kalajdzic and recent real madrid signing david alaba, they should have enough here to claim their long awaited first victory.
read on for how to watch an austria vs north macedonia live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with this match between austria and north macedonia being shown live on itv1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, austria vs north macedonia is being shown on itv1 (stv in scotland), with kick-off set for 5pm bst.
the build-up starts at 4.
15pm.
as it's itv, anyone located in the uk can tune in for free you'll be in possession of a valid uk tv license, of course.
for added on-the-go viewing convenience, you can also live stream austria vs north macedonia free by firing up itv hub, which has an excellent app that's available on nearly anything that plugs in these days just give it a search on your device, phone or console of choice.
not in the uk right now?
no worries just use a vpn to port yourself back home, then watch live as usual.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this group c match.
kick-off stateside is at 12pm et / 9am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream austria vs north macedonia directly through the espn website.
how to watch austria vs north macedonia without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 2am aest.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
austria vs north macedonia will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a austria vs north macedonia live stream, with kick-off set for 12pm et / 9am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with austria vs north macedonia set to start at 4am nzst on monday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
london: raheem sterling finally found his tournament touch when his 61st-minute goal gave england a deserved 1-0 win over croatia at wembley on sunday (jun 13) as they began a european championship with a victory for the first time in nine attempts.
sterling, something of a surprise starter after a flat end to the domestic season but a favourite of manager gareth southgate, slid home after great work by kalvin phillips to end an individual drought that had run through england's three previous major tournaments.
"it feels good.
i grew up two minutes down the road, so i knew i had to score here, and it was a great feeling to do it," said the wembley-raised forward.
southgate said he was unaware of england's previous run of opening-game failures despite having played in one of them in 1996 but, as expected, was not getting carried away by a solid but unexceptional display.
"it's for everybody else to get excited and throw their beer around and do whatever they want," he said.
"it's brilliant to give that joy to people.
but for us, it's on to the next one and preparing for a really tough game on friday (against scotland).
"but i was really pleased with the way we settled so quickly.
big occasion, sweltering hot day, every reason to look nervous at the start, but we didn't.
with and without the ball, we were composed.
although it was always going to be a game of few clear chances, we looked the bigger threat throughout.
"the game lacked the jeopardy of the teams' 2018 world cup semi-final, won by croatia, and losing on sunday was no disaster for them given the way the draw pans out, but it was a morale-boosting victory for england as they set off once again in search of their first title since 1966. pace flaggedroared on by a noisy 22,500 crowd a quarter of wembley's capacity they started full of bright intentions and put huge pressure on the visitors.
phil foden, his bleached hair channelling paul gascoigne from euro 96, almost gave them a dream start when he cut in from the right and curled a low shot against a post.
phillips, impressive all afternoon, then had a 25-yard shot blocked but, instead of riding the early momentum, england lost their way and, with the sun beating down, the pace and energy seeped out of the game either side of the break.
england eventually shook themselves out of the torpor and struck when phillips drove through the retreating defence, rode two tackles and played the ball expertly into the path of the darting sterling who, under pressure, just got enough on the ball to steer it home.
sterling had looked lively all day and celebrated his first major tournament goal with gusto, though he should have added a second 13 minutes later but blazed wildly over the bar.
another bright spot for england was the introduction of substitute jude bellingham who, at 17 years and 349 days, became the youngest player to appear in the european championship finals.
croatia also threw on their attacking subs as they tried to show a bit more ambition but though england's defence looked a little shaky at times there were few chances for an equalizer as, conversely to england, they lost their opening euro match for the first time in their six tournaments.
"we didn't do enough up front and couldn't engineer our trademark fast-flowing moves, but i am optimistic that we'll improve and get it right in the next two games," said coach zlatko dalic.
they are against scotland and the czech republic, who meet on monday, with croatia playing the czechs in glasgow on friday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 08:00												writer: 
															reutersst petersburg: romelu lukaku struck twice as belgium confirmed their status as one of the favourites for euro 2020 with a confident 3-0 victory over russia on saturday.
despite being without key performer kevin de bruyne, world number one ranked belgium were rarely in trouble against a russia side that struggled to impose themselves.
roberto martinez's belgium top group b on three points, ahead on goal difference of finland who beat denmark in the group's other game in copenhagen.
the red devils are unbeaten in 10 games in all competitions and have suffered just one defeat in their last 24 outings.
they have also scored in each of their last 31 games.
the visitor's grabbed the lead in the 10th minute when andrei semyonov failed to deal with a ball into the box from leander dendoncker, and lukaku turned and fired into the bottom corner.
lukaku celebrated his goal by running to the television camera and shouting "chris, chris, i love you" in tribute to christian eriksen, the danish midfielder and his club team-mate at inter milan, who had been rushed to hospital after collapsing during the earlier game in the group.
belgium were calm in possession and finding plenty of time and space against a russia side who struggled to get a firm grip on the game.
the russians reached the quarter-finals in the world cup they hosted in 2018 but the energy of those performances was missing, despite playing at home in front of more than 26,000 fans.
stanislav cherchesov struggled to find either the tempo to their attacks or a way to provide quality service to striker artem dzyuba who was too often left isolated.
it was no surprise when the second goal came, in the 34th minute, when russia keeper anton shunin could only parry thorgan hazard's shot towards thomas meunier, who made no mistake.
russia applied some pressure after the interval but the beligans coped without too much panic and the game already felt decided before lukaku wrapped up the win with a well-taken effort after racing on to a through ball from meunier.
lukaku said the eriksen situation had left him in tears before the game.
"i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spent more time with him than with my family," he said.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family," he added.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with christian.
i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him," added the former manchester united striker.
cherchesov conceded his team had struggled after falling behind to lukaku's opener.
"our tournament is continuing.
we are doing our job.
we chose our system, it worked partly but then started to break down.
the belgians scored and then it was difficult to get the ball off them.
"the russians host finland on wednesday and will need to quickly get their campaign on track.
"we will get out of the situation.
we put ourselves there, so we must now get out of it," cherchesov added.
lukaku and the belgian team had taken the knee before the kick-off but the anti-racist gesture was met with jeers and whistles from the crowd.
phuket: a hospital ambulance crashed off the road during a storm in the small hours of monday in muang district.
the driver and two nurses escaped with only minor injuries.
ayutthaya: eighteen employees of phra nakhon si ayutthaya hospital were found to be infected with covid-19 but the situation was under control and it remains open, hospital director chokchai leetho-chawalit said.
wellington: polynesian seafarers likely reached antarctica hundreds of years before the western explorers usually credited with discovering the frozen continent, a new study has concluded.
date published: saturday 12th june 2021 10:14               samuel bannister denmark manager kasper hjulmand said he could not praise his players enough after they showed unity in the wake of the crisis of the christian eriksen situation in their euro 2020 opener.
eriksen collapsed towards the end of the the first half of their match against finland and required cpr.
the game was suspended as the medics attended to the 29-year-old.
more than an hour later, they resumed play after their teammate awoke and was taken to hospital.
what followed on the pitch was of little significance on an emotional evening.
denmark lost 1-0 as finland won their first ever major tournament match.
the important thing for everyone involved though was knowing eriksen's condition, which was described as stabilising upon his admission to hospital.
hjulmand was in tears at his post-match press conference as he reflected on a day that left the football world in shock.
"first of all, if it gets emotional, it's been a tough night," said hjulmand.
"we are all reminded of what the most important thing in life is – to have valuable relationships, people we're close to, our family and our friends.
"we have a group of players that i cannot praise enough.
i couldn't be prouder of those people who took such good care of each other.
"he is one of my very dear friends.
the way the players talked in the dressing room to decide to not do anything before we knew christian was conscious and ok. "give our social media channels a follow – we're on facebook, twitter and instagramthe circumstances were tough for eriksen's teammates.
but according to uefa, both teams requested to complete the game after they knew eriksen was in a stable condition.
hjulmand shed light on the situation behind play resuming.
"we had two options to play the game [today] or tomorrow at 12pm and everyone agreed to play today," he said.
"you can't play a game with such feelings.
"we tried to win.
it was incredible they managed to go out and try to play the second half.
"honestly, there were players out there that were completely done.
emotionally done and emotionally exhausted. "
rome: italy capped a perfect night in the stadio olimpico witha euro 2020 opening win over turkeybut coach roberto mancini warned that the road was long between rome and wembley.
a 28-match unbeaten run has put mancini two games short of italy's two-time world cup winning coach vittorio pozzo's record of 30 unbeaten games between 1935 and 1939.
"we still have six games ahead of us.
it's a long way," said the 56-year-old former manchester city manager who took over in 2018 after italy failed to qualify for the world cup that year.
amid the euphoria veteran defender leonardo bonucci called for "cool heads, humility and a down to earth" approach while maintaining "hearts of fire".
in front of 16,000 fans, and preceded by a glittering opening ceremony, the spark was lit for a run which mancini hopes will end with a second european title after 1968 in london on jul 11. italy have the advantage of playing their group a matches at home and next meet switzerland in rome on wednesday followed by wales four days later.
for lazio forward ciro immobile, the group games at home are "pure adrenaline" as the 31-year-old scored his first international goal in his club stadium.
merih demiral's own goal got the ball rolling in the second half before immobile and lorenzo insigne completed the victory.
"we did what we had to do, it was our duty to win the first game on front of our fans," said immobile, who has scored four goals in the last five matches.
"spine-chilling"mancini's front-line trio of immobile, lorenzo insigne and domenico berardi proved efficient for an italy who are without a stand-out star striker.
italy missed out on the 2018 world cup, and the "azzurri" had not hosted an international match since the 1990 world cup.
tenor andrea bocelli's rousing performance to nessun dorma, popularised during that world tournament, set the tone for the night.
"there was an incredible emotion before the match, it was spine-chilling," said roma midfielder leonardo spinazzola, uefa's man-of-the-match after his performance in his club stadium.
"then it was a perfect match, zero goals conceded and we played great football.
"we have a strong team, an incredible mix of strength and technique.
"berardi had a role in all three goals against turkey, and has scored five goals in his last seven games for italy.
"our secret is the group," said napoli's insigne.
"no one's place is guaranteed, those who play know what to do and we put ourselves at the service of each other.
"veteran coach claudio ranieri praised mancini's style which has proved so successful in reviving the four-time world champions.
"what lucidity mancio has, he knows how to manage emotions," ranieri wrote in la gazzetta dello sport on saturday.
"the first game is always the most dangerous, there is the pressure of the debut, the desire to overdo it can sometimes lead you to make mistakes, but roberto mancini was really good.
"he managed emotions, the tactical plan, the most delicate moments of the match with clarity.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
st petersburg: belgium eased to a comfortable 3-0 victory over russia on saturday (jun 12) with two goals from romelu lukaku and one from thomas meunier to confirm their status among the european championship favourites.
the belgians, top of the fifa rankings, went ahead after only 10 minutes through lukaku and doubled the score before the break through meunier.
lukaku scored his second of the night two minutes from the end extending his record tally for his country to 62 goals.
belgium's obvious superiority was evident throughout the group b encounter in st petersburg, and victory for roberto martinez's team came without kevin de bruyne, out with injury, and only a cameo substitute appearance from captain eden hazard, another of the team's talismans.
belgium go to the top of the group standings, ahead on goal difference from finland, who upset denmark 1-0 in copenhagen earlier on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
wales 1switzerland 1baku • striker kieffer moore is enjoying the "big occasion" after heading in an equaliser, as wales snatched a 1-1 draw against wasteful switzerland in their euro 2020 group a clash at the baku olympic stadium yesterday.
moore, who had a first-half opportunity expertly saved by swiss goalkeeper yann sommer, guided the ball into the net on 74 minutes from a joe morrell delivery as he ghosted into space left by the static swiss defence.
"it's great personally, but it's a good start for us.
we would have liked to have won, but a draw from the first game puts us in a good position," said moore on the bbc.
"it's never good going a goal down, but to get one back and see the game out is a big positive for us.
it was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
"i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
"breel embolo had terrorised the welsh defence and put switzerland ahead when he showed impressive strength to outmuscle defender connor roberts from a corner shortly after half-time.
they also had a late goal by mario gavranovic correctly ruled out by the var (video assistant referee) for offside.
the swiss may blame themselves for not killing off the game earlier, having squandered several golden chances through haris seferovic in the first half and embolo after the break.
defender fabian schar had tried to beat goalkeeper danny ward with a cheeky flick before seferovic's 27th-minute curled shot sailed just over the bar.
the forward squandered two more chances before half-time as the swiss notched 11 attempts to wales' two in the first half.
what his teammates failed to achieve with finesse in the first half, embolo did with sheer power and speed in the 49th minute, heading in from a corner for a deserved lead after his powerful run and shot was saved by ward seconds earlier.
"we knew switzerland would have a lot of the ball and that we'd have to be solid and organised defensively," said wales' caretaker boss rob page told the bbc.
"we wanted a positive start and it feels like a win in the changing room.
i'm so proud of the players for digging so deep.
"with captain gareth bale well-marked throughout, they gradually upped the pressure in search of an equaliser as the swiss eased off and conceded some ground, and moore found the space to beat sommer with a glancing header.
"i feel a bit of frustration with the result, as we had the chances for the second goal but didn't take them," embolo said on uefa.
com.
"perhaps we were too passive after the first goal.
we deserved the win, but it turned out to be a draw and that's a pity.
"we have to take the positives, rest, focus on the next game and bring the good things from this match into the next.
"italy lead the group after their impressive 3-0 victory over turkey in the tournament opener on friday and will host the swiss in rome in their second game on wednesday.
wales stay in the azerbaijan capital to face the turks on the same day.
reutersit was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
belgium eased to a 3-0 win over russia in their euro 2020 opener on sunday morning (june 13, singapore time), but considered the victory a footnote after the frightening collapse of denmark playmaker christian eriksen, a long-time teammate and friend of several belgian players.
eriksen, 29, was earlier rushed to hospital after collapsing during the match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch, with football officials later saying the player was stable and awake much to the relief of teammates and fans.
"there were many tears before the match (against russia).
it was very hard for me to focus," striker romelu lukaku, who plays with eriksen at italian champions inter milan, told belgian tv.
"it was very hard for me, for (eriksen's former tottenham hotspur teammates) toby (alderweireld), for jan (vertonghen), for nacer (chadli).
we know him very well.
"i am happy with our victory, but our thoughts are with christian.
i just hope he gets well soon.
his children need him, we need him.
"lukaku had already paid tribute to his clubmate during the match, after scoring the first of his two goals, calling out "chris, stay strong, mate, love you", to a television camera.
defender alderweireld, who played with eriksen for years at ajax amsterdam and then spurs, said the team heard the news during their final preparations in their hotel.
"a few of us consider eriksen a friend.
nobody was thinking about our match at all", he said.
belgium coach roberto martinez said his team had given a solid performance, despite failing to score more goals in a tepid second half.
"there were many positive aspects, especially to keep a clean sheet, he said.
"it's very important to be able to defend with the ball, to impose ourselves so we can hurt the opposition.
we did that.
we could have scored a few more, but it was very important to keep a clean sheet.
"on the downside, martinez said euro 2020 was already over for leicester city defender timothy castagne, who left the game in the first half with a broken eye socket after a clash of heads with daler kuzyayev.
"he will probably need surgery, he will be out of the euros", he added.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
baku: a header from towering kieffer moore claimed a point for wales in a 1-1 draw with switzerland in baku on saturday (jun 12) to start both teams' euro 2020 campaigns.
moore responded to breel embolo's second-half opener with a quarter of an hour remaining.
both sides trail group a leaders italy, who beat turkey 3-0 in friday's tournament curtain-raiser.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia moenchengladbach's breel embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding 1.
95 metre-tall moore who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
embolo sparks to lifethey broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:46 am myt

belgium's romelu lukaku celebrates scoring their third goal against russia at the gazprom arena, saint petersburg june 12, 2021.
— reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
saint petersburg, june 13 — belgium striker romelu lukaku sent a message of support to his stricken inter milan team-mate christian eriksen after scoring, as his double helped the red devils open their euro 2020 campaign with a 3-0 win over russia on saturday.
lukaku gave belgium an early lead in saint petersburg, then shouted "chris, chris, stay strong — i love you" into a pitchside camera during the celebration for his opening goal.
his club team-mate eriksen is recovering in hospital in copenhagen after collapsing on the pitch during extraordinary scenes which overshadowed denmark's 1-0 home defeat by finland in saturday's earlier group b game.
substitute thomas meunier doubled belgium's lead on 34 minutes before lukaku put the result beyond doubt with a late second goal.
belgium, the world's top-ranked team, are under pressure to deliver at the european championship as some pundits claim this is roberto martinez's last chance to win a title with an ageing squad.
yet even with manchester city playmaker kevin de bruyne and borussia dortmund midfielder axel witsel sidelined by injury, belgium were too strong for russia.
the hosts got off to a bad start when andrei semenov failed to deal with a cross by dries mertens in the build-up to the opening goal.
the ball fell to lukaku, who span away and drove his shot into the bottom far corner on 10 minutes.
belgium's timothy castagne and russia's daler kuzyaev had to be helped off following a nasty clash of heads which saw both players substituted.
meunier, castagne's replacement at right-back, grabbed belgium's second by slotting home the rebound after his dortmund team-mate thorgan hazard swung in a cross which anton shunin failed to hold.
it stayed 2-0 at the break, but russia raised the tempo in the second half as roman zobnin fired over the belgian goal.
real madrid star eden hazard replaced mertens for the final 18 minutes to lift the belgian attack.
with two minutes left, lukaku swept meunier's pass into the russian net to claim his 20th goal in his last 15 international games.
before kick-off, the belgium team were booed for taking a knee to highlight racial injustice, while their russian opponents stood.
jeers echoed around the krestovsky stadium as the entire belgian team, as well as spanish referee antonio mateu lahoz, knelt, while lukaku, whose parents come from the democratic republic of congo, raised his right fist.
england have said they will do the same for their opening game of the european championship against croatia on sunday.
ex-nfl quarterback colin kaepernick started kneeling to protest against racial injustice in 2016. the gesture has become a familiar sight across a range of sports since george floyd, who was black, was killed by a white police officer in the united states last year.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
home  all the news  belgium 3-0 russia: lukaku brace seals red devils windate published: saturday 12th june 2021 10:02                 news desk belgium started euro 2020 with a 3-0 win over russia with romelu lukaku dedicating the first of two goals to inter milan team-mate christian eriksen.
the group b fixture had appeared in doubt when the other match in the group between denmark and finland – taking place two hours earlier – was suspended after eriksen collapsed in the first half.
a lengthy delay occurred but after the inter playmaker was able to regain consciousness and was taken to hospital, where he is in a stable position, the first match in the group resumed and belgium were able to take on russia, which ended in a routine victory for roberto martinez's men.
semi-finalists at the world cup in russia three years ago, belgium went top of the group thanks to a brace by lukaku that sandwiched thomas meunier's goal.
26 – romelu lukaku has been directly involved in 26 goals in his last 19 appearances for belgium in all competitions, scoring 22 and assisting four.
phenomenal.
#euro2020 #bel #rus pic.
twitter.
com/eukrmlzzav— optajoe (@optajoe) june 12, 2021eden hazard was left on the bench in st petersburg and there was an unsavoury start when the belgium players were booed as they took the knee before kick-off.
lukaku was able to respond in the perfect fashion after 10 minutes when he put the number one ranked team in the world ahead.
dries mertens' cross was not dealt with by andrey semenov and former everton and manchester united striker lukaku fired the ball in with his left foot before he grabbed the pitchside camera saying, "chris, i love you" in a message to team-mate eriksen.
a nasty clash of heads between timothy castagne and daler kuzyaev resulted in both being substituted midway through the first half and it was the former's replacement who made it 2-0. thorgan hazard's ball into the area was pushed out into a dangerous position by russia goalkeeper anton shunin and substitute meunier slotted home from 10 yards.
it had not been a good half for stanislav cherchesov's team and he was forced into another change when former chelsea player yuri zhirkov limped off before the break.
russia came out with more intent after the interval but despite using all five of their substitutions by the 63rd minute, including taking off kuzyaev's replacement denis chershev, thibaut courtois remained largely untroubled in the belgian goal.
captain eden hazard was able to play the final 18 minutes and there was time for the goalscorers to combine for a third.
meunier played lukaku through on goal and he drilled the ball low into the corner for his second of the night to ensure one of the favourites started on a positive note.
it took a long time for jordan henderson to be appreciated at liverpool.
the wait goes on with england.
finland's first ever tournament win was overshadowed by eriksen's collapse.
he is thankfully in a stable condition.
none of those players or officials should have been asked to play on so soon after fearing for christian eriksen's life.
.
.
uefa have announced belgium versus russia will go ahead despite worrying scenes in the other group b tie.
follow it here.
.
.
wales kept their qualification hopes alive by avoiding defeat to switzerland in their opening game.
robert page said the draw with switzerland 'felt like a win'.
a passive point might not look so good later in the group.
.
.
any man who can mellow roy keane while bringing some much-needed sunshine into all our lives is alright by johnny.
.
.
no longer is the english game "all about heart".
foden is king of a new breed that would suit other countries.
arsenal want a fairly young deep-lying playmaker with premier league experience to replace xhaka.
righto.
with added buendia, brentford, norwich and watford.
would you back anyone but chelsea and city to go again this summer?
it took a long time for jordan henderson to be appreciated at liverpool.
the wait goes on with england.
update your browser to view this website correctly.
update my browser now×
we use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from.
to learn more or opt-out, read our cookie policy.
please also read our privacy notice and terms of use, which became effective december 20, 2019. by choosing i accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.
filed under:the liverpool player delivered a great corner kick that was headed home by breel embolo.
harry wilson and neco williams were unused substitutes for wales.
the eufa euro 2020 tournament (being played in 2021) is finally in full swing, with saturday being the first full day of matches.
there was a large contingent of liverpool players suiting up for their national teams in the first match of the day as switzerland took on wales.
xherdan shaqiri started for switzerland, while harry wilson and neco williams were both named to the bench for wales.
shaqiri played in the hole behind haris sefervic and breel embolo.
the vertically challenged dynamo was a creative spark for his side, leading the team with four key passes, including an assist for switzerland's only goal on the day.
shaqiri delivered a driven corner kick that was headed home by embolo.
shaqiri assist, embolo goal, #sui 1-0 up pic.
twitter.
com/bqq48mgomlshaqiri was subbed off in the 66th minute with his team leading 1-0.  it was a good showing for the player who is likely auditioning for a transfer.
wales, for their part, would manage to claw a goal back in the 74th minute to earn a 1-1 draw.
both harry wilson and neco williams were unused substitutes.
in the next round of group a, wales will take on turkey in baku, while switzerland will have the difficult task of trying to get points off of italy in rome.
copenhagen: denmark star christian eriksen was awake in hospital, the danish football union said on saturday, after he collapsed on the pitch during the euro 2020 game against finland in copenhagen.
"christian eriksen is awake and is undergoing further tests" at the hospital, the danish federation said on twitter, after the player was carried off the field having received cpr by medical personnel.
a reuters photographer at the game saw eriksen raise his hand as he was carried from the pitch on a stretcher.
eriksen collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline.
teammates martin braithwaite and thomas delaney rushed to assist him, with delaney beckoning furiously for medical assistance.
the midfielder's teammates formed a ring around him as medics pumped his chest just before halftime in their group b clash with the finns.
both teams subsequently left the field with officials holding up sheets to hide the stricken player from view.
"the uefa euro 2020 match in copenhagen has been suspended due to a medical emergency," uefa said in a short statement.
about half an hour later, the organisation tweeted that eriksen "has been transferred to the hospital and has been stabilised".
"a crisis meeting has taken place with both teams and match officials," it added.
the match restarted at 2.
30am singapore time.
uefa said that it had agreed to restart the match "following the request made by players of both teams".
finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
eriksen was later able to speak to his teammates.
"we've been in contact with him, and the players have spoken to christian.
that's the great news.
he's doing fine, and they are playing the game for him," dbu director peter moeller told danish television.
eriksen was voted man of the match in a gesture of support.
"moments like this put everything in life into perspective," said uefa president aleksander ceferin.
the previously raucous crowd at the parken stadium in the danish capital fell silent after the 29-year-old fell to the ground near the end of the opening period, with his teammates gathering around him.
team doctor morten boesen said at the press conference that eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage on the pitch.
after around 15 minutes eriksen was stretchered off the field followed by the rest of the denmark team, while finland's players also left the pitch.
the fans in the stadium, who were celebrating the chance to see their national team again live at the stadium, sat silently in their seats waiting for news of eriksen's condition to filter through.
however soon after stadium-wide chants of "christian" and "eriksen" from both sets of supporters began to ring out as his status began to filter through to supporters.
they were brought to their feet when stadium announcers said that eriksen was "stable".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
denmark's christian eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch after collapsing on saturday in his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland but was able to speak before being taken to hospital, team doctor morten boesen said.
eriksen was surrounded by his teammates while being treated on the pitch and then stretchered away.
the game was eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later after news came through that he had regained consciousness.
"we were called onto the field when christian collapsed.
he was lying on his side when we approached him and there was respiration and pulse," boesen told a news conference after the game, which finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
"but that picture changed and he then received life-saving cardiac massage.
we quickly got help from the stadium doctor and we got christian back," he said.
"christian spoke to me before he was taken to the hospital," said boesen.
denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players had been too overwhelmed by the incident to finish the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand said at the news conference.
players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday, hjulmand said, adding there had been no pressure from uefa to finish the match on saturday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer who plays for milan in italy, were too upset to finish the game, he said.
"simon kjaer was deeply, deeply touched.
he was in doubt whether he could continue and gave it a shot, but ultimately he couldn't.
i completely understand that," hjulmand said.
a hush fell over the crowd of 16,000 fans while eriksen received treatment on the pitch, and outside bars around central copenhagen people gathered, many in tears, while the player's condition remained unclear.
hjulmand said the players came together in the dressing room, supporting each other and allowing themselves to show their emotions.
"i cannot be more proud of this group of people who take such good care of each other at this time, when a loved one is fighting for his life," he said.
"it was a very tough night and we were all reminded what's the most important in life. "
paris: after dethroning 'king of clay' rafa nadal at the french open, novak djokovic will next face a first-time grand slam finalist in stefanos tsitsipas as the world number one bids to become the first man in the open era to win all four majors at least twice.
roy emerson and rod laver are the only men to have won each of the four grand slams on two or more occasions but no one has achieved the feat since 1968, when the sport allowed professional players to compete at the majors.
a second trophy at roland garros, after his 2016 triumph on the red clay, on sunday will also give the 34-year-old serbian his 19th grand slam title one short of nadal and roger federer's men's record.
his challenger will be a 22-year-old who is bidding to become the first greek to win a singles major.
tsitsipas has long been marked out as a future grand slam champion and has already collected trophies from the season-ending atp finals and a masters 1000 tournament.
but he had drawn a blank the three times he reached the last-four stage at a major before friday's semi-final where he took down u. s.  open finalist alexander zverev in a thrilling five-set duel.
the first grand slam finalist from greece will arrive on court philippe chatrier on sunday with a 2-5 win-loss record against the serbian but will draw inspiration from the fact that he has a tour-leading win tally in 2021.
"i'm looking forward to that challenge," tsitsipas said on friday, looking ahead to his first major final.
"i'm looking forward to bring my game to kind of challenge myself to step it up.
"nothing less than his 'a' game would suffice for the greek as he has never managed to defeat djokovic on clay though he took the serbian to five sets in the semi-finals at the same venue last year.
the emotions of friday's fantastic win over 13-time french open winner nadal might leave a hangover for most players but that might not be a problem for djokovic with his incredible mental strength.
"it's not the first time that i play an epic semi-final in a grand slam and then i have to come back in less than 48 hours and play finals," he said.
"my recovery abilities are pretty good, i must say, throughout my career .
.
.
i know what i need to do.
"djokovic was happy to relax a bit and enjoy his semi-final win over his great rival but will not take anything for granted against the greek.
"he's in great form," the serbian said.
"i think he matured as a player a lot.
clay (is) arguably his best surface.
"we played an epic five-setter last year in the semis here.
yeah, i know it's going to be another tough one.
"i'm hoping i can recharge my batteries as much as i can because i'm going to need some power and energy for that one.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: singapore fell to a third straight loss in its second round world cup qualifying campaign on saturday (jun 12) with a 3-0 defeat by saudi arabia in riyadh.
with this defeat, singapore have conceded 12 goals in three matches in group d since the resumption of its joint qualification campaign for the 2022 world cup in qatar and the 2023 asian cup in china, scoring none in reply.
a5-0 defeat to uzbekistanon monday followed a4-0 loss to palestinelast week.
following the rout against the uzbeks, the lions made three changes to their starting lineup and showed an improved defensive performance against the saudis in the first half, with the match goalless at half-time.
saudi arabia's salem al-dawsari broke the deadlock in the 83rd minute with a right-footed shot from the edge of the 6-yard box.
three minutes later, fahad al-muwallad made it 2-0 before sahel al-shehri finished off proceedings in the sixth minute of stoppage time.
also in group d, uzbekistan pipped yemen 1-0 to keep the pressure on the saudis.
the table-toppers will be decided next week when both teams square off in riyadh.
the top-placed team from the eight second-round groups and the four best runners-up will progress to the third round of 2022 world cup qualifiers.
they will also qualify for the 2023 asian cup.
"today, our boys did very well and i am proud of them," said singapore coach tatsuma yoshida, whose remarks were carried on the football association of singaporewebsite.
"we changed our formation and they followed some (new) strategies .
.
.
it was fantastic, but saudi arabia are very strong.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
12 june 2021
two tournament dark horses bring plenty of talent to euro 2020robert page's welsh side kick off their euro 2020 group a campaign this afternoon against switzerland as they look to emulate their superb last showing in a major tournament.
read on for your guide to watching a wales vs switzerland live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the welsh enjoyed an incredible run in france five years ago where they beat tournament favourites belgium before eventually being beaten by tournament winners portugal in the semi-final.
date: saturday, june 12kick-off time: 2pm bst / 3pm cet / 9am et / 6am pt / 11pm aest / 1am nzst (sun)venue: baku olympic stadium, baku, azerbaijanfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freewhile their warm-up preparations for euro 2020 haven't been ideal they were beaten by france, albeit with ten men and then failed to break down a battling albanian side in cardiff a team that possesses the attacking threat of gareth bale , and aaron ramsey should not be discounted.
the swiss come into this tournament in excellent form, having won their last six matches, the most recent victory an emphatic 7-0 thrashing of liechtenstein.
much of their hopes for this tournament may rest on striker haris seferovic who has been in sparkling form for benfica this season.
read on for how to watch an wales vs switzerland live stream for free today.
in the uk, this euro 2020 clash between wales and switzerland is being shown on bbc one along with welsh-language channel s4c.
coverage on both channels starts at 1.
15pm bst, with kick-off set to follow at 2pm bst.
you can also live stream both channel's coverage of wales vs switzerland for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this game.
kick-off stateside is at 9am et / 6am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream wales vs switzerland directly through the espn website.
how to watch wales vs switzerland without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 11pm aest.
an optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
wales vs switzerland will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a wales vs switzerland live stream, with kick-off set for 9am et / 6am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
kick off time for wales vs switzerland in new zealand is at a somewhat inconvenient 7am nzst on sunday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 10:45												writer: 
															afp paris novak djokovic can become the first man in 52 years to win all four grand slam titles twice in the french open final on sunday after conquering rafael nadal, the 'mount everest' of roland garros.
world number one djokovic takes on greece's stefanos tsitsipas for the title with tennis history on the line.
victory for the serb will take him alongside roy emerson and rod laver as the only men to capture the four majors more than once.
it's an achievement that has proved even beyond the capabilities of nadal and roger federer.
it is so rare an accomplishment that it hasn't happened since 1969 when laver completed his second calendar grand slam.
djokovic can pocket a 19th slam with victory and move just one behind the record of 20 jointly held by nadal and federer.
djokovic insists there will be no letdown physically or emotionally after reaching the final in paris for a sixth time with an epic triumph over 13-time champion nadal.
"it's not the first time that i play an epic semi-final in a grand slam and then i have to come back in less than 48 hours and play finals," said the 34-year-old.
"my recovery abilities have been pretty good throughout my career.
"his four-hour, four-set battle with nadal is already jostling for a prime spot in the list of "greatest ever matches" at the slams.
'never believed' -it featured a lung-busting 92-minute third set and required government intervention to allow the 5,000 fans inside court philippe chatrier to watch the match's conclusion despite it extending beyond the 11pm covid-19 curfew.
the 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 triumph gave djokovic the honour of being the only man to have beaten nadal in paris more than once, having first achieved it in the 2015 quarter-finals.
nadal has only lost three times in 108 matches since his title-winning debut in 2005. djokovic, the 2016 champion, said it was his best win in paris and ranked it among his "three greatest" ever performances.
"it's hard to find words bigger than all the superlatives you can think of for rafa's achievements at roland garros," said djokovic who now leads their series 30-28 and had lost three finals in the french capital to nadal.
"each time you step on the court with him, you know that you have to kind of climb mount everest to win against this guy here.
"djokovic has already admitted he's a fan of tsitsipas, proclaiming him as a grand slam champion in the making.
"he is a hard worker, dedicated, nice guy," said djokovic.
"he's very smart and wise.
i love the fact that he is more than just a tennis player and he's always looking to learn from experience and to understand something new about himself.
"that's the trait of a champion.
"djokovic will be playing in his 29th slam final on sunday.
he holds a 5-2 record over tsitsipas, a run which includes all three meetings on clay.
at last year's roland garros, djokovic won their semi-final over five sets.
"we played an epic five-setter last year in the semis here.
i know it's going to be another tough one," added djokovic who also defeated tsitsipas in rome on the eve of the french open.
"i'm hoping i can recharge my batteries as much as i can because i'm going to need some power and energy for that one.
"tsitsipas, 22, and 12 years younger than the serb, is in his first slam final having ended a run of three semi-final losses by defeating alexander zverev over five sets on friday.
victory on sunday would make him the first greek player to win a slam title.
he would also become the youngest champion in paris since nadal in 2008 and overall at the slams since juan martin del potro at the 2009 us open.
"i've never believed, have never really thought at what age this achievement might come," said tsitsipas.
"but i'm really happy with myself.
i think i've shown good discipline so far.
i've been progressive.
"tsitsipas is the hottest player on tour in 2021 with a season-leading 39 wins.
twenty-two of those have come on clay and have reaped a masters title in monte carlo as well as lyon.
tsitsipas also had a match point in the barcelona final against eventual champion nadal.
"there is the final on sunday, which is exciting.
i'm looking forward to leaving my entire body on the court," said the greek who knocked out second seed daniil medvedev in the quarter-finals.
heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.

glenn price

@glennprice94


                                    xherdan shaqiri provided an assist as switzerland opened their euro 2020 campaign by drawing 1-1 with wales on saturday.
the liverpool attacker's corner was headed in by breel embolo early in the second half, before he was then withdrawn in the 66th minute.
but the group a encounter ended in a draw thanks to kieffer moore's equaliser, with harry wilson and neco williams both unused substitutes for wales.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen (reuters) denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players were too overwhelmed with emotion to finish their opening euro 2020 match against finland on saturday (june 12), after teammate christian eriksen collapsed on the pitch and was rushed to the hospital.
eriksen was surrounded by his teammates while being treated on the pitch and then stretchered away.
the game was eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later after news came through that he had regained consciousness.
finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand told a press conference after the game.
players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday, hjulmand said, adding there had been no pressure from uefa to finish the match on saturday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer who plays for milan in italy, were too upset to finish the game, he said.
"simon kjaer was deeply, deeply touched.
he was in doubt whether he could continue and gave it a shot, but ultimately he couldn't.
i completely understand that," hjulmand said.
a hush fell over the crowd of 16,000 fans while eriksen received treatment on the pitch, and outside bars around central copenhagen people gathered, many in tears, while the player's condition remained unclear.
hjulmand said the players came together in the dressing room, supporting each other and allowing themselves to show their emotions.
"i cannot be more proud of this group of people who take such good care of each other at this time, when a loved one is fighting for his life," he said.
"it was a very tough night and we were all reminded what's the most important in life.
"team doctor morten boesen said at the press conference that eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage on the pitch.
boesen added that he talked with eriksen before he was taken to the hospital, while soccer officials said the player's condition was stable.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 07:59												writer: 
															reuterscopenhagen: finland's 1-0 win over denmark in their european championship opener on saturday will be remembered for several reasons, coach markku kanerva said after their historic result was overshadowed by denmark's christian eriksen terrifying health scare.
playing in their first ever major international tournament, finland claimed a shock 1-0 win after striker joel pohjanpalo headed home the winner on the hour, while keeper lucas hradecky saved a penalty in the 73rd minute.
finland had only that one attempt on goal, compared with denmark's 22 shots on goal at the parken stadium.
"it was a very emotional night for us," kanerva said.
"first time in a major tournament and an opening game against denmark in their home stadium.
when we heard the national anthems, it was very emotional for us.
"and then what happened with christian eriksen a very dramatic and sad incident.
"and then finally, we get a good result from the game.
of course i am happy for that.
unbelievable, we are going to remember this for a long time for different reasons.
"eriksen required cpr and emergency medical treatment after collapsing on the pitch, leading to the match being suspended for an hour and 45 minutes before it was restarted.
the 29-year-old was rushed to hospital where his condition was stabilised.
the danes were clearly affected by the trauma of eriksen's collapse, with some wiping away tears before the restart.
finland's pohjanpalo also refused to celebrate after scoring the winner.
"i said to them that i understood the emotions of the game and how they would feel after what had happened to christian," kanerva added.
"i said to them, 'try to focus as much as you can on the game'.
i said 'i know it will be difficult to do that', but they coped really well.
"heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.
italy kicked off the european championship in emphatic style on saturday morning (june 12, singapore time) as they delivered a commanding performance to sweep past toothless turkey 3-0 at the stadio olimpico in rome and stamp their early authority on group a. after a goalless first half, an own goal and strikes by ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne were just reward for the home side, who played with relentless positivity from the start.
their dispiriting failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup looked a distant memory as they stretched their unbeaten run to 28 matches in a buoyant atmosphere.
they were helped by a flat display from turkey, who lost their fifth consecutive opening match of a european championship and barely mustered a worthwhile attack all night.
"it was important to start well here in rome and it is a joy for us and for all the italians," said coach roberto mancini.
"we produced a good performance and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams.
"switzerland and wales, who meet in the group's second game in baku on saturday, always knew italy were the group favourites but the size of their task has suddenly looked somewhat bigger.
after a build-up featuring a spine-tingling rendition of nessun dorma by opera singer andrea bocelli – channelling thoughts of italia '90 – a spectacular fireworks display and a typically raucous rendition of italy's national anthem, the 16,000-strong crowd was in fine voice by kick-off.
they were given plenty to cheer too as italy made all the early running against a turkish team happy to sit deep and invite pressure.
however, mancini's side were left frustrated in their efforts to break through the wall of red shirts.
giorgio chiellini had a header tipped over with a spectacular one-handed save by ugurcan cakir and immobile nodded a cross wide as italy went in at the break with 14 attempts to none from turkey – but without a goal.
they kept probing and their patience was rewarded when berardi fired a cross into the six-yard box where demiral chested the ball into the net – the first time in a european championship that the tournament's opening goal was an own goal.
the ever-dangerous leonardo spinazzola had a shot beaten away and manuel locatelli's low effort was palmed wide before immobile doubled italy's lead by pouncing on cakir's parry from another spinazzola effort to neatly knock in the rebound.
the azzurri's dominance was rewarded again when immobile threaded a pass to insigne, who placed a precise finish into the bottom corner with 11 minutes remaining.
it marked the first time italy had scored three goals in a match at the euros at their 39th attempt and capped a perfect start.
mancini had told his players they should enjoy themselves and seek to entertain and that was exactly what they did for a jubilant home crowd.
there was only gloom in the visiting camp as veteran coach senol gunes, who led turkey to third place at the 2002 world cup, apologised for the performance.
"i was expecting a better game, and i am disappointed and we are sorry," he said.
"italy totally controlled the game.
"on june 16, italy face switzerland in rome and turkey take on wales in baku in the second round of group a games.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
denmark midfielder christian eriksen, who was hospitalised after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opener against finland on saturday (jun 12), had no prior heart issues during his time with premier league club tottenham hotspur, his former cardiologist said.
eriksen, 29, collapsed in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in and was given life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch, with officials later saying that the player was stable and awake.
dr sanjay sharma of st.  george's university of london said eriksen had returned normal tests since 2013, but the sight of the inter milan playmaker falling to the ground had briefly raised concerns that doctors had missed something.
"i thought, 'oh my god?
is there something there that we didn't see?'
but i have looked at all the test results and everything looked perfect," sharma told the mail on sunday.
"from the day we signed him, it was my job to screen him and we tested him every year.
so certainly his tests up to 2019 were completely normal, with no obvious underlying cardiac fault.
i can vouch for that because i did the tests.
"former bolton wanderers midfielder fabrice muamba said that eriksen's collapse brought back painful memories of his cardiac arrest on the pitch in an fa cup match in 2012.  the ex-england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
"it brought back stuff that i have put down in me, this emotion that's down there.
to watch it from that distance and not know what was going to happen," muamba told the bbc.
"it was scary, but credit to the medical staff.
they have done an amazing job on christian.
i like how his team mates got together to protect him.
"i hope things turn out to be ok for him.
i hope he will come through.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
paris: rafael nadal shrugged off his epic loss to novak djokovic at the french open insisting "life goes on" as the 13-time champion suffered just his third ever defeat in 108 matches in paris over 16 years.
in their 58th career clash, world number one djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 in the semi-final and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
nadal, the defending champion and chasing a record-setting 21st grand slam title, refused to dwell on the consequences of his 4-hour 11-minute loss.
"i am sad to have lost in the most important tournament of the year for me, but life goes on, it is nothing more than a defeat on a tennis court," said 35-year-old nadal.
"if everything goes well, tomorrow i will be at home with my family and friends, and then we will see what is next.
"nadal said he plans to be back in 2022 although admitting that time is not on his side if he wants to re-establish his paris dominance.
had he made sunday's championship match, he would have been the oldest roland garros finalist in the modern era.
"although it is a very important tournament for me, i am aware that you cannot win it 15 or 16 times," he added.
"next year i will come again, god willing, with the belief and with the necessary work to be able to give myself another chance.
"in their 58th career meeting, and ninth at the french open, nadal had looked comfortably on course for victory when he raced to a 5-0 lead in the first set.
but 2016 champion djokovic, the man now responsible for two of nadal's losses in paris having also triumphed in the 2015 quarter-finals, hit back.
"did not hurt him"as the match progressed into the later heavier, humid and slower conditions, the world number one flourished.
he claimed a titanic 92-minute third set which had seen him serve for it at 5-4 and then have to save a set point in the 12th game.
in the fourth set, he was 0-2 down before racing away with the next six games for his second win in paris over nadal in nine meetings.
that sequence also included defeats in the 2012, 2014 and 2020 finals.
djokovic will now be playing in his sixth roland garros final and 29th at the slams.
"in the end, of course, if you win the third set you can say that was the key, because it changes the dynamic," said nadal.
"at times, my ball did not hurt him.
you have to give him credit, congratulate him, but i know i can play better on this court.
"when asked if he had faced the best djokovic performance of their 15-year rivalry, he was adamant.
"no, that's what i feel.
he has not faced my best self either.
"there were games on the limit, games that anyone could win, and today it was for him.
"despite that, there is a degree of evidence that nadal is beginning to lose more epics than he wins at the slams.
at the australian open in february, he lost to stefanos tsitsipas from two sets up in a five-set quarter-final defeat.
tsitsipas, who faces djokovic in sunday's final, is 13 years younger than nadal.
in the wimbledon semi-finals in 2018, nadal lost a final set 10-8 to djokovic after quitting injured in the fifth set of his australian open semi against marin cilic earlier that same year.
even gilles muller of luxembourg beat him at wimbledon in 2017, courtesy of a 15-13 final set.
"it doesn't matter," added a rueful nadal.
"that's tennis.
the player who gets used to the conditions better is the player who deserves to win.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
 share copiednovak djokovic handed 13-time champion rafael nadal only his third defeat in 16 years and 108 matches at the french open on friday (june 11) to reach his sixth roland garros final in an epic showdown.
in their 58th career clash, djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
nadal, 35, who would have been the oldest finalist at the french open in the modern era, remains tied on 20 majors with roger federer.
rafael nadal of spain reacts after hitting a shot into the net during the third set tie break against novak djokovic of serbia during the semi-final at the 2021 french open in paris, france, june 11, 2021.
/cfp"it was a privilege to face rafa in such an incredible match," said djokovic after four hours and 11 minutes of intense action.
it was nadal's first defeat in 14 semi-finals in the french capital.
"probably it was not my best day today, even if i fought," said nadal, "sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.
i had a big chance.
there were some crazy points but there was fatigue there.
"the semi-final was even given permission to be concluded in front of spectators despite the tie exceeding an 11 p. m.  covid-19 curfew.
stefanos tsitsipas of greece (l) shakes hands with alexander zverev of germany after winning the men's singles semi-final at the 2021 french open in paris, france, june 11, 2021.
/cfpdjokovic, the 2016 champion in paris who had also beaten nadal at the 2015 tournament, will face stefanos tsitsipas in sunday's final in what will be his 29th championship match at the slams.
tsitsipas had earlier become the first greek to reach a grand slam final with a 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 4-6, 6-3 victory over germany's alexander zverev.
(with input from agencies)copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3
italy star ciro immobile basked in his goal against turkey on friday as he and his team-mates embraced fans returning to the stands after more than a year of battling the coronavirus.
immobile scored the second of italy's goals, leading the way in a 3-0 win that also included a finish from lorenzo insigne and an unfortunate own goal from merih demiral.
italy's euro 2020-opening win came at the stadio olimpico, home of immobile's club team lazio, making the striker's goal even sweeter.
"seeing the fans celebrate after all this time was wonderful, we finally got to come together after so long of this damned virus," immobile told rai sport.
"i think we showed patience this evening.
turkey are a strong side and caused problems for many top teams.
we tried to tire them out in the first half, moving the ball left and right, trying to spread them.
"unfortunately, we regularly hit their brick wall, especially as we're not that good in the air.
turkey were more tired after the break, and after the goal they had to open up some spaces, so that's when our quality emerged.
"scoring a goal on the euros debut in my stadium, it doesn't get better.
"immobile wasn't the only one moved by friday's match, as man of the match leonardo spinazzola admitted it was an emotional day.
italy was one of the countries hit hardest by the coronavirus over the last year, and seeing fans in the stadium once again was something special to the italy defender.
"the emotions started on the bus towards the stadium, seeing all the people in the streets.
it really did give us goosebumps," he told sky sport italia.
"it was a perfect performance.
we were patient, we moved the ball around well.
then afterwards i saw my son in the stands, it was emotional. "
italy kickstarted the tournament in style with the 3-0 win in what was their first ever three-goal performance at the euros.
the azzurri are seen by many as a contender to make a deep run into the tournament, although they haven't received the same attention as some of the other tournament favourites.
friday's result will no doubt give them some momentum heading through the rest of the group stages and perhaps even into the knockout rounds going forward.
"when you start this adventure, you need some tension, some goosebumps, the desire to get out there.
i imagined it'd be like this because of the path we took to get here," defender leonardo bonucci told sky sport italia.
"now this is the first in a long journey, so we keep our feet on the ground, as it's going to be a run of very close games, the opponents will get to know us better, but we know that we can have our say.
"with people around us in the stands, it's a whole other style of football.
they keep our hearts aflame throughout the match.
"now from tomorrow let's cancel out the negative, take the positive and prepare for the next match. "
novak djokovic compared defeating rafael nadal at the french open to scaling mount everest as he hailed friday's epic semi-final triumph over the 13-time champion as "one of my greatest victories".
djokovic condemned nadal to only his third loss in 16 years and 108 matches at roland garros to reach his sixth paris final after a classic showdown which even beat the country's covid-19 curfew.
in their 58th career clash, djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
djokovic, the 2016 champion in paris who had also beaten nadal in the 2015 quarter-finals, will face stefanos tsitsipas in sunday's final in what will be his 29th championship match at the slams.
tsitsipas had earlier become the first greek to reach a grand slam final with a 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 4-6, 6-3 victory over germany's alexander zverev.
defending champion nadal, 35, who would have been the oldest finalist at the french open in the modern era, remains tied on 20 majors with roger federer.
"it was a privilege to face rafa in such an incredible match," said djokovic after four hours and 11 minutes of intense action.
"tonight it was my greatest ever match in paris.
"it was his second win in nine meetings at roland garros with nadal, a sequence which also included devastating losses in the 2012, 2014 and 2020 finals.
"definitely one of the top three matches that i ever played in my entire career," said djokovic.
"considering the quality of tennis, playing my biggest rival on the court where he has had so much success and has been the dominant force in the last 15-plus years, and the atmosphere which was completely electric.
just amazing.
"it was nadal's first defeat in 14 semi-finals in the french capital.
"probably it was not my best day today, even if i fought," said nadal.
"sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.
i had a big chance.
there were some crazy points but there was fatigue there.
"djokovic finished with 50 winners; nadal committed 55 unforced errors under a relentless assault.
"it's hard to find words bigger than all the superlatives you can think of for rafa's achievements in roland garros," added 34-year-old djokovic who now leads their series 30-28.
"each time you step on the court with him, you know that you have to kind of climb mount everest to win against this guy here.
"nadal bemoaned the humid conditions which became heavier and slower as the evening progressed.
"we had been playing with very warm and high bounces.
during the night the situation goes a little bit the other way," he said.
"so the bounce is a little less.
the ball gets less top-spin.
that's more favourable for him.
"djokovic had two break points in the opening game of the first set which stretched to 10 minutes but was unable to convert.
curfew-buster -nadal made him pay, sprinting away for a 5-0 lead before the top seed got on the board.
djokovic clung on, retrieving one break to get to 2-5 but nadal eventually prevailed after one hour on court even if he required seven set points to edge ahead.
as a sign of the tension of the occasion, nadal complained to chair umpire eva asderaki-moore that he needed more time to collect his towel.
djokovic aired his bemusement at the amount of clay on the baselines.
the old rivals exchanged breaks in the second and third games of a big-hitting second set but it was djokovic who repeated the feat for a 4-2 lead before levelling the tie.
twice in the third set djokovic edged ahead, only to be reeled back in by nadal who broke back in the 10th game as the world number one served for the set.
djokovic then had to save a set point with an ice-cool drop shot in the 12th game.
"you cannot play better clay court tennis than this.
it's perfect," tweeted an admiring andy murray, the former world number one who lost the 2016 final to djokovic.
the 92-minute third set ended with djokovic taking the tiebreak.
in a further twist on a dramatic evening, the 5,000 spectators inside court philippe chatrier were allowed to watch the conclusion of the match despite it passing the 11pm covid-19 curfew.
"in agreement with the national authorities, the match will come to an end in your presence," said a stadium announcer told delighted fans.
nadal broke in the first game of the fourth set but djokovic levelled for 2-2 and broke again for 4-2. he finished it off on a second match point when nadal hit wide and long.
dj/jcchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilpresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
aatif sulleyman
12 june 2021
can messi finally get his hands on america's cup?
lionel messi, neymar and luis suarez headline an ensemble of the world's top footballing talents as they strive to lead their respective countries to 2021 copa america glory over the next four weeks.
read on to find out how to watch a copa america 2021 live stream from anywhere.
dates: june 13 july 11, 2021free copa america 2021 live stream: bbc iplayer (uk)global live streams: fox sports via fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | univision (can) | spark sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freepão e circo are the order of the day in covid-crippled brazil, which brushed aside international condemnation to accept hosting duties, after deadly political unrest and a worsening health crisis deemed colombia and argentina unsuitable.
football fans will be keeping their fingers crossed that off-field problems don't overshadow what should be a celebration of sport, but may end up as one of the most controversial events ever.
in normal times, the copa america is one of football's most spectacular festivals and a tournament that's been traditionally dominated by the big three: uruguay (15 titles), argentina (14) and brazil (9).
and like euro 2020 on the other side of the atlantic, it has been eagerly awaited.
the seleção are the defending champions, with everton, gabriel jesus and richarlison having fired brazil to victory over peru in the final two years ago.
incredibly, messi has never lifted america's cup, having tasted defeat in three finals, the last of which pushed him to an early, albeit temporary, international retirement.
copa america has become an obsession for la albiceleste, who haven't won the tournament in 28 years.
here's how to live stream copa america 2021 from anywhere not forgetting how to watch every game of copa america for free.
there are loads of options for watching a free copa america live stream.
as usual, football fans in the uk are extremely lucky on this front, with all the games being shown by national broadcaster bbc on its free-to-watch  iplayer streaming service.
elsewhere the likes of televisión pública in argentina, sbt in brazil, canal 13 in chile, and américa televisión in peru will also be carrying some free coverage throughout the tournament.
scroll down for all the ways you can watch copa america online in a number of countries around the world.
but first, you should know that if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you probably won't be able to watch the footy like you normally would at home.
this is because of geo-blocking, a digital restriction that means certain streaming services are only accessible in the region they're based in.
don't sweat it, though, as you've got the option of using a vpn to tune to your preferred coverage wherever you are.
use a vpn to live stream copa america 2021 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've taken the time to try out all the biggest vpn providers and we found expressvpn to be the best of the bunch.
it works with lots of devices and offers super fast connections across its many servers.
it's compatible with loads of devices including ios, android, amazon fire stick, playstation, apple tv and such, and we found it secure, speedy and simple-to-use.
throw in its robust security features, and expressvpn is the best all-round vpn for streaming and perhaps best of all, it has a 30-day money back guarantee plus 3 months free when you subscribe for a year.
once you've downloaded the software, just follow the prompts to install it then select the location you want to relocate your ip address to it really is that easy.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysremember, there are loads of benefits to using a vpn beyond just helping you regain access to streaming services and content from abroad.
one of the biggest is security: by using encrypted tunnels, vpns give you a robust first-line of defense against cybercriminals and government snooping.
this makes everyday tasks like online shopping and banking much safer, and many people choose to use one for that reason alone.
the great news for football fans based in the uk is that you can watch copa america free online for every single game of the tournament!if you're not in front of a tv, you can stream all of the action on bbc iplayer.
as a national broadcaster, it doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
you can also watch every single match via the red button.
kick-off times vary, but all of the action takes place late at night, with the early games set to begin at 10pm bst, and the latest at 2am bst.
not in the uk for copa america?
no worries residents of the country can just download and install a vpn to port themselves back home to a uk location, then watch live as normal.
soccer fans based in the us can tune in to copa america on fox sports.
if you get the channel as part of your cable package, you can also watch the action unfold on fox sports' streaming platform, though you'll have to enter your cable provider's credentials.
not got cable?
there are plenty of over-the-top tv streaming services you can use too.
of the many options, we think sling tv is the best fit for most soccer fans' needs, with its blue package offering fox sports.
sling blue usually costs $35 per month, but new subscribers can get a fantastic bargain right now you can save big bucks with this sling tv deal, which lets you get a whole month of sling blue for $10.
another great option is fubotv, an even more comprehensive streamer that also offers fox sports channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month, but there's a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
spanish-language coverage is also available in the us via tudn and univision.
and remember, if you're abroad right now you can use a vpn to tune into your home subscription service, no matter where you are in the world.
in australia, there's only one place to tune into copa america 2021, with optus sport set to show all of the action from the tournament.
optus coverage can be streamed via mobile and tablet with the channel's app, while cord-cutters can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
you can sign up to optus sport on the service's website here.
kick-off times vary, but most of the action takes place before noon, with the early games set to begin at 7am aest, and the latest at 11am bst.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
it's cable for soccer fans in canada, with spanish-language channel univision showing the copa america action in the great white north.
kick-offs are timed conveniently, with the early games set to begin at 5pm et / 2pm pt, and the latest at 9pm et / 6pm pt.
premium streaming service spark sport has the exclusive rights to copa america in new zealand.
and because spark sport offers a 1-month free trial to new users, you can tune in for free.
after that, a subscription costs $24.
99 per month, and includes plenty of black caps action, as well as nba basketball, f1 racing, and motogp.
kick-off times vary, but most of the action takes place in the late morning and early afternoon, with the early games set to begin at 9am nzst, and the latest at 1pm nzst.
group agroup ball times bst.
group stage (june 13-29 2021)sunday, june 13 2021monday, june 14 2021tuesday, june 15 2021thursday, june 17 2021friday, june 18 2021saturday, june 19 2021sunday, june 20 2021monday, june 21 2021tuesday, june 22 2021wednesday, june 23 2021thursday, june 24 2021friday, june 25 2021sunday, june 27 2021tuesday, june 29 2021knockout stage (july 2-11 2021)quarter-finalsfriday, july 2 2021saturday, july 3 2021sunday, july 4 2021semi-finalstuesday, july 6 2021wednesday, july 7 2021third-place playoff1am, saturday, july 10 20211am, sunday, july 11 2021sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
by stefano pozzebon, cnnupdated 1455 gmt (2255 hkt) june 12, 2021 bogota, colombia (cnn)the copa america, south america's premier football competition, due to kick off june 13 in the brazilian capital of brasilia, is triggering a wave of strong reactions for a sporting event.
rodrigo pedroso contributed to this report from são paulo.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 08:00												writer: 
															reutersst petersburg: romelu lukaku struck twice as belgium confirmed their status as one of the favourites for euro 2020 with a confident 3-0 victory over russia on saturday.
despite being without key performer kevin de bruyne, world number one ranked belgium were rarely in trouble against a russia side that struggled to impose themselves.
roberto martinez's belgium top group b on three points, ahead on goal difference of finland who beat denmark in the group's other game in copenhagen.
the red devils are unbeaten in 10 games in all competitions and have suffered just one defeat in their last 24 outings.
they have also scored in each of their last 31 games.
the visitor's grabbed the lead in the 10th minute when andrei semyonov failed to deal with a ball into the box from leander dendoncker, and lukaku turned and fired into the bottom corner.
lukaku celebrated his goal by running to the television camera and shouting "chris, chris, i love you" in tribute to christian eriksen, the danish midfielder and his club team-mate at inter milan, who had been rushed to hospital after collapsing during the earlier game in the group.
belgium were calm in possession and finding plenty of time and space against a russia side who struggled to get a firm grip on the game.
the russians reached the quarter-finals in the world cup they hosted in 2018 but the energy of those performances was missing, despite playing at home in front of more than 26,000 fans.
stanislav cherchesov struggled to find either the tempo to their attacks or a way to provide quality service to striker artem dzyuba who was too often left isolated.
it was no surprise when the second goal came, in the 34th minute, when russia keeper anton shunin could only parry thorgan hazard's shot towards thomas meunier, who made no mistake.
russia applied some pressure after the interval but the beligans coped without too much panic and the game already felt decided before lukaku wrapped up the win with a well-taken effort after racing on to a through ball from meunier.
lukaku said the eriksen situation had left him in tears before the game.
"i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spent more time with him than with my family," he said.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family," he added.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with christian.
i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him," added the former manchester united striker.
cherchesov conceded his team had struggled after falling behind to lukaku's opener.
"our tournament is continuing.
we are doing our job.
we chose our system, it worked partly but then started to break down.
the belgians scored and then it was difficult to get the ball off them.
"the russians host finland on wednesday and will need to quickly get their campaign on track.
"we will get out of the situation.
we put ourselves there, so we must now get out of it," cherchesov added.
lukaku and the belgian team had taken the knee before the kick-off but the anti-racist gesture was met with jeers and whistles from the crowd.
heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.
rome:     roberto mancini might be laughing now, but the italy coach will not find it so easy to play down his team's chances of winning euro 2020 if they continue like they started.
the azzurri put in a dominant, swashbuckling display as they flattened turkey 3-0 in rome's stadio olimpico on friday to start their campaign in style.
the victory marked their 28th consecutive game without defeat, leaving mancini two games away from equalling double world cup winning manager vittorio pozzo's all-time unbeaten record from the 1930s.
but when asked if his side were now among the tournament favourites, mancini laughed.
"it was important to start well here in rome and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams," he said.
the second part of mancini's answer showed that while he does not want his players to face the pressure that comes with being favourites, his ambition is nevertheless to reach the final in six games' time.
that does not seem like an unlikely proposition after an opening day performance that could not have gone much better, as all of mancini's big selection decisions paid off.
"italy were almost perfect, dominating possession and creating a lot of chances without ever leaving themselves at risk," 2006 world cup winner alessandro del piero told sky italia.
the question of who should lead the line has long been a cause of debate in italy, but lazio striker ciro immobile answered his critics in his club's home stadium by scoring his first major tournament goal before setting up lorenzo insigne for italy's third.
leonardo spinazzola's selection at left back ahead of chelsea's emerson proved to be a great call as the as roma man also shone on a familiar pitch, earning the man of the match award after terrorising the turks' right flank for 90 minutes.
domenico berardi was preferred to federico chiesa on the right wing and was heavily involved; his awkward cross led to merih demiral's own goal to calm any italian nerves.
by fulltime, the azzurri had scored three goals in a european championship match for the first time and all of mancini's decisions were justified.
it was a magical night for the italians present in the 16,000-strong crowd, and the anger and disappointment of the failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup is now a distant memory.
based on the opening day evidence, mancini will not be able to laugh off italy's title-winning credentials for long.
(reporting by alasdair mackenzie; editing by christian radnedge)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
paris: world number one novak djokovic said his win over rafa nadal in friday's epic french open semi-final was one of the top three matches he had played and he would remember it forever.
the 34-year-old serb lost the opening five games but hit back in magnificent fashion towin 3-6 6-3 7-6(4) 6-2in front of a raucous court philippe chatrier crowd.
he will now face greek stefanos tsitsipas in sunday's final, where he will seek a second french open title and a 19th grand slam title in total to move one behind the men's record haul held by nadal and roger federer.
"definitely the best match that i was part of at roland garros, and top three matches that i ever played in my entire career," djokovic told reporters after inflicting only a third ever french open defeat on 13-time champion nadal.
"considering the quality of tennis, playing my biggest rival on the court where he has had so much success and has been the dominant force in the last 15-plus years, and the atmosphere which was completely electric.
"one of these nights and matches you will remember forever.
"the omens did not look good for djokovic when he went 5-0 down in the first set despite playing well.
it had horrible similarities to last year's final which he lost to the spaniard 6-0 6-2 7-5, only this time he wrenched back control.
"the beginning of the match was kind of resembling last year's final," djokovic, who enjoyed loud support throughout the four-hour contest, said.
"i was not too nervous though even if i was 0-5 down because the feeling was different from last year's final, because i was just hitting the ball better and feeling better overall.
"i just kind of found my rhythm, found my groove.
there was no looking back.
even though i lost the first set, i found my game.
things started to work out really nicely.
"freshest guyeven for a man of djokovic's physical and mental resources, the emotions of friday's win might leave a hangover and he will be fully aware that the last time he beat nadal at the french open in 2015, he ended up losing the final to stan wawrinka.
"i'm not the freshest guy right now obviously.
but the good thing is that i have a day and a half to rejuvenate," he said.
"i'll enjoy this victory a little bit.
i think i deserve after this big win to just relax a little bit without thinking about the next opponent, even though it's a grand slam final.
"djokovic saved a set point at 5-6 in a pivotal third set full of spellbinding rallies before taking the tiebreak.
he then reeled off the last six games of the match to take his record over career-long rival nadal to 30-28. incredibly, djokovic is the first player in 116 matches to beat nadal in best-of-five sets on clay after losing the opener.
asked what it meant to beat nadal at a grand slam he has owned almost exclusively since 2005, djokovic said it was difficult to put into words.
"i mean, he has been the most dominant player of the roland garros history.
he lost two, now three times, in his entire career here," world number one djokovic said.
"the amount of wins that he has made on this court isincredible.
each time you step on the court with him, youknow that you have to kind of climb mount everest to win.
"it's just one of these matches that i really will remember for a very long time, not just because i won the match but because of the atmosphere, the occasion was very special.
"(reporting by martyn herman and julien pretot; editing by pritha sarkar)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
rome: italy kicked off the european championship with a convincing 3-0 victory over turkey in group a at the olympic stadium on friday (jun 11) with ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne on target.
roberto mancini's side had been frustrated by turkey's defensive approach in the first half but broke through in the 53rd minute when a hard-hit cross from domenico berardi flew in off turkey defender merih demiral for an own goal.
the azzurri, now unbeaten in 28 matches, doubled their lead in the 66th when leonardo spinazzola's drive was parried by turkey goalkeeper ugurcan cakir but immobile reacted well to slot home the loose ball.
insigne made it 3-0 in the 79th minute with a confident, curling finish after some sloppy defending from the disappointing turks.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
a spectacular sound and light show and fireworks preceded kick-off for the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries having been delayed for a year because of the coronavirus pandemic.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
switzerland and wales face each in the group's second game in baku on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
rome: italy will face stronger opposition than turkey at euro 2020 but a commanding3-0 win in the tournament's opening matchin front of their own fans on friday suggests the azzurri have all the ingredients to go far.
the outcome was fitting reward for roberto mancini's side who stretched their unbeaten run to 28 games with an impressive performance while also keeping another clean sheet, their 12th in the last 13 games.
mancini, who took over after italy failed to qualify for the 2018 world cup, has transformed a dull and predictable-looking side into a potent unit whose three-pronged attack thrives alongside a creative midfield and formidable defence.
mancini has abandoned italy's conservative style of safety first and carved out an adventurous outfit whose approach based on crisp, one-touch passing secured 10 straight wins in qualifying, with 37 goals scored and four conceded.
a 4-0 win over the czech republic in their final warm-up last sunday turned out to be a taste of what was to come at the olympic stadium as mancini fielded an unchanged team against the turks and his men delivered again.
toothless turkey held on in the first half by defending with everyone behind the ball but the italians left the impression it was only a matter of time before the floodgates opened.
domenico berardi was a threat on the right flank all evening and there was only going to be one outcome after merih demiral turned the forward's cross into his own net in the 53rd minute.
with left back leonardo spinazzola doing damage on the other flank, turkey's defence, which conceded three goals in 10 qualifying games, looked all at sea and had no reply to italy's raids.
ciro immobile got his reward with a typically opportunist goal to make it 2-0 in the 66th minute before lorenzo insigne put the icing on the cake in the 79th with a fine shot past helpless goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
at the other end, the long-serving central defensive duo of giorgio chiellini and leonardo bonucci looked as comfortable as ever in keeping turkey's top scorer burak yilmaz at bay and breaking out to feed the midfield.
having scored three goals in one european championship match for the first time, italy's new-found confidence and commitment to attacking football looks likely to bear more fruit.
they will head into their remaining group a matches against switzerland and wales at the same venue buoyed by a display which delighted the home fans who will crave more of the same.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
11 june 2021
euro 2020 has arrived with an intriguing match-up in romedelayed by a mere 12 months, the wait is finally over as the travelling football roadshow that is euro 2020 gets under way at last this evening with this tasty-looking opening match in rome.
read on for your guide to watching a turkey vs italy live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
having missed the 2018 world cup, the azzurri will be keen to reassert themselves on the international stage with strong showing in this tournament.
date: friday, june 11kick-off time: 9pm cet / 8pm bst / 3pm et / 12pm pt / 5am aest / 7am nzstvenue: stadio olimpico, rome, italyfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freeroberto mancini's side will therefore be desperate to make a good start and have the advantage of starting the campaign on home turf, with this match taking place at  the iconic stadio olimpico in rome.
it's a tough tournament opener for the italians however, with turkey the epitome of an unpredictable opponent.
şenol güneş's side started the year in fine form with wins against european heavyweights the netherlands and norway in world cup 2022 qualifiers.
however, underwhelming performances against azerbaijan, guinea and moldova in the run up to euro 2020 place question marks over how far they'll progress in this tournament.
while italy won all 10 of their qualifying matches.
read on for how to watch an turkey v italy live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with today's opening match between turkey and italy being shown live on bbc1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, this opening match of euro 2020 between turkey and italy is being shown on bbc one.
coverage starts at 7pm bst and includes all the build up as well as the tournaments opening ceremony, with kick-off set to follow at 8pm bst.
you can also live stream turkey vs italy for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this opening game.
kick-off stateside is at 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream turkey vs italy directly through the espn website.
how to watch turkey vs italy without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 5am aest.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
turkey vs italy will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a turkey vs italy live stream, with kick-off set for 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with turkey vs italy set to start at 7am nzst on saturday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
paris: rafael nadal shrugged off his epic loss to novak djokovic at the french open insisting "life goes on" as the 13-time champion suffered just his third ever defeat in 108 matches in paris over 16 years.
in their 58th career clash, world number one djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 in the semi-final and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
nadal, the defending champion and chasing a record-setting 21st grand slam title, refused to dwell on the consequences of his 4-hour 11-minute loss.
"i am sad to have lost in the most important tournament of the year for me, but life goes on, it is nothing more than a defeat on a tennis court," said 35-year-old nadal.
"if everything goes well, tomorrow i will be at home with my family and friends, and then we will see what is next.
"nadal said he plans to be back in 2022 although admitting that time is not on his side if he wants to re-establish his paris dominance.
had he made sunday's championship match, he would have been the oldest roland garros finalist in the modern era.
"although it is a very important tournament for me, i am aware that you cannot win it 15 or 16 times," he added.
"next year i will come again, god willing, with the belief and with the necessary work to be able to give myself another chance.
"in their 58th career meeting, and ninth at the french open, nadal had looked comfortably on course for victory when he raced to a 5-0 lead in the first set.
but 2016 champion djokovic, the man now responsible for two of nadal's losses in paris having also triumphed in the 2015 quarter-finals, hit back.
"did not hurt him"as the match progressed into the later heavier, humid and slower conditions, the world number one flourished.
he claimed a titanic 92-minute third set which had seen him serve for it at 5-4 and then have to save a set point in the 12th game.
in the fourth set, he was 0-2 down before racing away with the next six games for his second win in paris over nadal in nine meetings.
that sequence also included defeats in the 2012, 2014 and 2020 finals.
djokovic will now be playing in his sixth roland garros final and 29th at the slams.
"in the end, of course, if you win the third set you can say that was the key, because it changes the dynamic," said nadal.
"at times, my ball did not hurt him.
you have to give him credit, congratulate him, but i know i can play better on this court.
"when asked if he had faced the best djokovic performance of their 15-year rivalry, he was adamant.
"no, that's what i feel.
he has not faced my best self either.
"there were games on the limit, games that anyone could win, and today it was for him.
"despite that, there is a degree of evidence that nadal is beginning to lose more epics than he wins at the slams.
at the australian open in february, he lost to stefanos tsitsipas from two sets up in a five-set quarter-final defeat.
tsitsipas, who faces djokovic in sunday's final, is 13 years younger than nadal.
in the wimbledon semi-finals in 2018, nadal lost a final set 10-8 to djokovic after quitting injured in the fifth set of his australian open semi against marin cilic earlier that same year.
even gilles muller of luxembourg beat him at wimbledon in 2017, courtesy of a 15-13 final set.
"it doesn't matter," added a rueful nadal.
"that's tennis.
the player who gets used to the conditions better is the player who deserves to win.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
paris (afp) novak djokovic handed 13-time champion rafael nadal only his third defeat in 16 years and 108 matches at the french open on friday (june 11) to reach his sixth roland garros final in an epic showdown which even beat the country's covid-19 curfew.
in their 58th career clash, djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
djokovic, the 2016 champion in paris who had also beaten nadal at the 2015 tournament, will face stefanos tsitsipas in sunday's final in what will be his 29th championship match at the slams.
tsitsipas had earlier become the first greek to reach a grand slam final with a 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 4-6, 6-3 victory over germany's alexander zverev.
nadal, 35, who would have been the oldest finalist at the french open in the modern era, remains tied on 20 majors with roger federer.
"it was a privilege to face rafa in such an incredible match," said djokovic after four hours and 11 minutes of intense action.
"tonight it was my greatest ever match in paris. "
it was his second win in eight meetings in paris with nadal, a sequence which also included three losses in finals.
it was nadal's first defeat in 14 semi-finals in the french capital.
"probably it was not my best day today, even if i fought," said nadal.
"sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.
i had a big chance.
there were some crazy points but there was fatigue there.
"djokovic finished with 50 winners; nadal committed 55 unforced errors under the relentless assault.
djokovic had two break points in the opening game of the first set which stretched to 10 minutes but was unable to convert.
nadal made him pay, sprinting away for a 5-0 lead before the top seed got on the board.
djokovic clung on, retrieving one break to get to 2-5 but nadal eventually prevailed after one hour on court even if he required seven set points to edge ahead.
as a sign of the tension of the occasion, nadal complained to chair umpire eva asderaki-moore that he needed more time to collect his towel.
djokovic aired his bemusement at the amount of clay on the baselines.
the old rivals exchanged breaks in the second and third games of a big-hitting second set but it was djokovic who repeated the feat for a 4-2 lead before levelling the tie.
twice in the third set djokovic edged ahead, only to be reeled back in by nadal who broke back in the 10th game as the world number one served for the set.
djokovic then had to save a set point with an ice-cool drop shot in the 12th game.
"you cannot play better clay court tennis than this.
it's perfect," tweeted andy murray.
a 92-minute third set ended with djokovic taking the tiebreak.
in a further twist on a dramatic evening, the 5,000 spectators inside court philippe chatrier were allowed to watch the conclusion of the match despite it passing the 11pm covid-19 curfew.
"in agreement with the national authorities, the match will come to an end in your presence," said a stadium announcer told delighted fans.
nadal then broke in the first game of the fourth set but djokovic levelled for 2-2 and broke again for 4-2. he finished it off on a second match point when nadal hit wide and long.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
italy kicked off the european championship in emphatic style on saturday morning (june 12, singapore time) as they delivered a commanding performance to sweep past toothless turkey 3-0 at the stadio olimpico in rome and stamp their early authority on group a. after a goalless first half, an own goal and strikes by ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne were just reward for the home side, who played with relentless positivity from the start.
their dispiriting failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup looked a distant memory as they stretched their unbeaten run to 28 matches in a buoyant atmosphere.
they were helped by a flat display from turkey, who lost their fifth consecutive opening match of a european championship and barely mustered a worthwhile attack all night.
"it was important to start well here in rome and it is a joy for us and for all the italians," said coach roberto mancini.
"we produced a good performance and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams.
"switzerland and wales, who meet in the group's second game in baku on saturday, always knew italy were the group favourites but the size of their task has suddenly looked somewhat bigger.
after a build-up featuring a spine-tingling rendition of nessun dorma by opera singer andrea bocelli – channelling thoughts of italia '90 – a spectacular fireworks display and a typically raucous rendition of italy's national anthem, the 16,000-strong crowd was in fine voice by kick-off.
they were given plenty to cheer too as italy made all the early running against a turkish team happy to sit deep and invite pressure.
however, mancini's side were left frustrated in their efforts to break through the wall of red shirts.
giorgio chiellini had a header tipped over with a spectacular one-handed save by ugurcan cakir and immobile nodded a cross wide as italy went in at the break with 14 attempts to none from turkey – but without a goal.
they kept probing and their patience was rewarded when berardi fired a cross into the six-yard box where demiral chested the ball into the net – the first time in a european championship that the tournament's opening goal was an own goal.
the ever-dangerous leonardo spinazzola had a shot beaten away and manuel locatelli's low effort was palmed wide before immobile doubled italy's lead by pouncing on cakir's parry from another spinazzola effort to neatly knock in the rebound.
the azzurri's dominance was rewarded again when immobile threaded a pass to insigne, who placed a precise finish into the bottom corner with 11 minutes remaining.
it marked the first time italy had scored three goals in a match at the euros at their 39th attempt and capped a perfect start.
mancini had told his players they should enjoy themselves and seek to entertain and that was exactly what they did for a jubilant home crowd.
there was only gloom in the visiting camp as veteran coach senol gunes, who led turkey to third place at the 2002 world cup, apologised for the performance.
"i was expecting a better game, and i am disappointed and we are sorry," he said.
"italy totally controlled the game.
"on june 16, italy face switzerland in rome and turkey take on wales in baku in the second round of group a games.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
loading.
.
.
saturday, 12 jun 2021 07:10 am myt

serbia's novak djokovic celebrates after winning his semi final match against spain's rafael nadal in paris june 11, 2021.
― reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
paris, june 12 ― novak djokovic compared defeating rafael nadal at the french open to scaling mount everest as he described yesterday's epic semi-final triumph over the 13-time champion as "one of his three greatest victories".
djokovic condemned nadal to only his third loss in 16 years and 108 matches at roland garros to reach his sixth paris final after a showdown which even beat the country's covid-19 curfew.
in their 58th career clash, djokovic triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6 (7/4), 6-2 and stays on course to capture a 19th major and become the first man in over 50 years to win all four slams twice.
djokovic, the 2016 champion in paris who had also beaten nadal at the 2015 tournament, will face stefanos tsitsipas in sunday's final in what will be his 29th championship match at the slams.
tsitsipas had earlier become the first greek to reach a grand slam final with a 6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 4-6, 6-3 victory over germany's alexander zverev.
nadal, 35, who would have been the oldest finalist at the french open in the modern era, remains tied on 20 majors with roger federer.
"it was a privilege to face rafa in such an incredible match," said djokovic after four hours and 11 minutes of intense action.
"tonight it was my greatest ever match in paris.
"it was his second win in nine meetings in paris with nadal, a sequence which also included three losses in finals.
"definitely one of the top three matches that i ever played in my entire career," said djokovic.
"considering quality of tennis, playing my biggest rival on the court where he has had so much success and has been the dominant force in the last 15-plus years, and the atmosphere which was completely electric.
just amazing.
"it was nadal's first defeat in 14 semi-finals in the french capital.
"probably it was not my best day today, even if i fought," said nadal.
"sometimes you win, sometimes you lose.
i had a big chance.
there were some crazy points but there was fatigue there.
"djokovic finished with 50 winners; nadal committed 55 unforced errors under the relentless assault.
"it's hard to find words bigger than all the superlatives you can think of for rafa's achievements in roland garros," added 34-year-old djokovic who now leads their series 30-28.
"each time you step on the court with him, you know that you have to kind of climb mount everest to win against this guy here.
"djokovic had two break points in the opening game of the first set which stretched to 10 minutes but was unable to convert.
curfew-buster nadal made him pay, sprinting away for a 5-0 lead before the top seed got on the board.
djokovic clung on, retrieving one break to get to 2-5 but nadal eventually prevailed after one hour on court even if he required seven set points to edge ahead.
as a sign of the tension of the occasion, nadal complained to chair umpire eva asderaki-moore that he needed more time to collect his towel.
djokovic aired his bemusement at the amount of clay on the baselines.
the old rivals exchanged breaks in the second and third games of a big-hitting second set but it was djokovic who repeated the feat for a 4-2 lead before levelling the tie.
twice in the third set djokovic edged ahead, only to be reeled back in by nadal who broke back in the 10th game as the world number one served for the set.
djokovic then had to save a set point with an ice-cool drop shot in the 12th game.
"you cannot play better clay court tennis than this.
it's perfect," tweeted andy murray.
a 92-minute third set ended with djokovic taking the tiebreak.
in a further twist on a dramatic evening, the 5,000 spectators inside court philippe chatrier were allowed to watch the conclusion of the match despite it passing the 11pm covid-19 curfew.
"in agreement with the national authorities, the match will come to an end in your presence," said a stadium announcer told delighted fans.
nadal then broke in the first game of the fourth set but djokovic levelled for 2-2 and broke again for 4-2. he finished it off on a second match point when nadal hit wide and long.
― afploading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
