Umno chief meets Malaysian King, proposes ending emergency and reconvening Parliament, SE Asia News & Top Stories.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia's royal rulers have begun arriving at the national palace for a special meeting with the king on wednesday (june 16) to discuss the country's covid-19 crisis.
over the last week, sultan abdullah ahmad shah had granted audiences to political party leaders across the divide to get their views on the government's handling of the outbreak during the ongoing state of emergency, which will expire in six weeks.
the king had met 18 political leaders face to face as well as in virtual sessions from june 9, said a statement issued by the comptroller of the royal household, datuk indera ahmad fadil shamsuddin, on tuesday.
aside from meeting political leaders, the king also granted an audience to the chairman of the special independent committee on the emergency, tun arifin zakaria, at istana negara on tuesday, it said.
experts from various government agencies are scheduled to present briefings on matters related to health, security, politics and the economy during wednesday's meeting at 2.
30pm, which will be the second by the malay rulers to discuss the pandemic, after one was held in october last year.
the state of emergency was declared amid a spike in covid-19 cases in january.
there have been calls for the emergency to be lifted due to the worsening covid-19 health crisis.
the nation is currently under another lockdown after record highs in covid-19 cases and deaths were reported in recent weeks.
last wednesday, opposition leader anwar ibrahim said he had pleaded with the constitutional monarch not to extend the state of emergency, as the move has not helped poorer malaysians.
opposition democratic action party secretary-general lim guan eng, whose party has the most number of mps, told reporters after his audience that the discussion with the king revolved around financial assistance for the people to see them through the outbreak.
as a potential solution to malaysia's crisis, the country's longest-serving premier mahathir mohamad mooted the revival of a council that governed the nation after its deadly may 13, 1969, race riots in his audience with the king last thursday.
dr mahathir claimed the national operations council (mageran), which was in charge for two years during the last national emergency until 1971, allowed malaysia's second prime minister, tun abdul razak hussein, to "solve political problems at the time" by bringing in opposition parties to form a wider barisan nasional (bn) ruling coalition that had a stronger majority.
back then, mageran was made up of a small group of political leaders and top civil servants that included the police and armed forces' chiefs.
dr mahathir suggested including experts on the covid-19 pandemic this time.
pakatan harapan has opposed the idea, while umno has said that it is against extending the emergency.
opponents of prime minister muhyiddin yassin have also called for the resumption of parliament, which last sat in december last year to pass this year's budget, so that the outbreak can be addressed.
the state of emergency suspends the requirement for parliament to reconvene within six months of its last sitting and also ensures the muhyiddin administration remains in power.
tan sri muhyiddin on tuesday unveiled a four-phase post-pandemic exit plan for malaysia, ahead of the monarchs' special talks, projecting that malaysia from september might gradually open up its economy, social sectors and also parliament.
the country has failed to fully recover from a resurgent outbreak arising from sabah state polls in september last year.
in late october, malaysia was reporting some 1,200 covid-19 cases a day.
on tuesday, it recorded 5,419 cases.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur: gabungan parti sarawak (gps), the ruling coalition in the borneo state, highlighted the importance of a "strong and stable government" as one of the crucial factors in the fight against covid-19 in its meeting with the malaysian king on monday (jun 14).
four top leaders from the coalition were the last group to be granted an audience by king al-​sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shahin a series of meetingswith party chiefs since last wednesday.
in a statement issued after the audience via video conferencing from kuching, chiefs of the parti rakyat sarawak (prs), sarawak united people's party (supp) and progressive democratic party (pdp) said they backed chief minister abang abdul rahman zohari abang openg's position as the coalition chairman on three factors for the covid-19 battle.
"the vaccination programme is to be accelerated and completed by august to achieve herd immunity.
"the presence of a strong and stable government to ensure covid-19 programme and (economic) implementation are well-grounded," the statement read.
the third factor is the implementation of a post-covid-19 economic exit plan, the statement added.
mr abang abdul rahman zohari is the president of parti pesaka bumiputera bersatu (pbb).
the gps was formed in 2018 after the four parties quit barisan nasional following the latter's defeat in the 14th general election.
while not a member of the perikatan nasional coalition, which took over federal administration in a power tussle last year, gps had said that it supported prime minister muhyiddin yassin in the interest of political stability.
the sarawak state election, which was supposed to be held this year, has been postponed as mandated by the state of emergency proclaimed by the king in january.
the palace said king al-​sultan abdullah would meet fellow malay rulers on wednesday to discuss malaysia's efforts to curb the spread of covid-19 and its implementation during the state of emergency.
in last week's royal audiences, leader of the opposition anwar ibrahim pleaded with the kingnot to extend the state of emergency, which was slated to end on aug 1. calling for the same, united malays national organisation president ahmad zahid hamidi said the party also wantedthe parliament to reconvene.
parliament meetings have been suspended since the state of emergency was declared, putting attempts to challenge mr muhyiddin's razor-thin majority on hold.
former prime minister mahathir mohamad, meanwhile, said he is in favour of setting up anational operations councilto help solve the health, economic, and social issues currently plaguing the country.
on monday, malaysia's new daily cases dropped below the 5,000-mark for the first time in close to a month.
a nationwide lockdown was earlierextended by another two weeksto jun 28. mr muhyiddin said on sunday that a national recovery plan in preparation for the country to emerge from the covid-19 pandemic was in the works.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
source: the sun dailykuala lumpur, malaysia — the united malays national organisation (umno) is opposed to any extension of the current state of emergency in malaysia, says party president ahmad zahid hamidi after an audience with king al-sultan abdullah on friday (11 june).
ahmad zahid told reporters outside the national palace here today that he had mooted the prospect during his hour-long audience with sultan abdullah "to ensure the country's democratic system is defended".
"it was obvious that even without the emergency, the government could previously handle matters related to fighting the covid-19 pandemic," he added.
while calling for an end to the emergency, the bagan datuk member of parliament (mp) also proposed the resumption of parliament sittings.
"umno believes that parliament is an important official platform to voice the people's concerns (on matters such) such as loan moratoriums, i-sinar and i-lestari 2.
0 and other forms of assistance for everyone," he said.
ahmad zahid is one of several politicians who have openly spoken up against the state of emergency and the suspension of parliament, the latter of which is enabled by the former.
parti keadilan rakyat president anwar ibrahim in january filed a suit against muhyiddin and the federal government, on the grounds that the latter had allegedly advised the nation's king to suspend parliament sittings during the state of emergency.
malay mail reported that in a separate statement filed in court, anwar had argued that the suspension of parliament under emergency powers blocks parliament's freedom to ensure transparent debates, government accountability, and proper checks and balances on the executive branch of the government in making and enacting laws during the pandemic.
anwar was also one of the politicians who have met with the king this week.
he was granted an audience with sultan abdullah with parti amanah negara president mohamad sabu and democratic action party (dap) secretary-general lim guan eng — all component parties of the pakatan harapan coalition.
former prime minister mahathir mohamad, whose parti pejuang tanah air political party has yet to be registered, also had a meeting with the king, during which he proposed the setting up of a national operations council (mageran) in the present circumstances.
mageran was set up after the 13 may racial riots in 1969 to restore the rule of law and order in the country.
several political leaders have since challenged dr mahathir's proposal to establish mageran.
ahmad zahid told reporters that the idea of mageran should have been brought forth at the start of the emergency period.
he added that he did not discuss the mageran issue with the king.
"i feel it is something normal outside the scope of the existing situation because the emergency is supposed to cover it but it has been used to achieve other purposes," said ahmad zahid.
in a joint statement on friday, anwar, mohamad sabu, and lim said that their objection is grounded in their belief that for a parliamentary democracy to truly function, the emergency must be lifted and parliament must be allowed to reconvene.
"the solution to the people's problems in relation to covid-19, the economy and even politics requires a democracy that functions well, and the best avenue to hear out their grievances and to find solutions to them is parliament," they said.
klang mp charles santiago also called for the end of the emergency and for parliament sittings to resume via both physical and virtual means.
in a tweet on friday, the dap politician wrote: "don't make a mockery of parliamentary democracy.
end emergency, reconvene parliament via physical & virtual sessions.
"santiago also expressed his objection against mageran in the same tweet, saying: "no to noc.
"don't make a mockery of parliamentary democracy.
end emergency, reconvene parliament via physical & virtual sessions.
no to noc.
— charles santiago (@mpklang) june 11, 2021prime minister muhyiddin yassin in march defended the emergency proclamation, stating that it is not a tool for him to cling on to his position but a pre-emptive move in managing the covid-19 situation in the country.
the emergency would be lifted earlier than its scheduled end on 1 august if the government is able to control the pandemic situation in the country, he added.
"if the independent special committee says [the emergency] can be put to an end earlier, i will just follow that.
we also do not want to be under restriction by such regulations forever," said muhyiddin.
sultan abdullah is slated to discuss the emergency and the covid-19 situation with eight other rulers in a special conference next wednesday (16 june).
the king's succession of physical meetings with political leaders this week is set to end on friday.
he is slated to have a virtual meeting with sarawak's ruling party gabungan parti sarawak on monday.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur the president of umno the biggest party in malaysia's ruling perikatan nasional (pn) government has proposed the ongoing state of emergency come to an end in august and for parliament to reconvene, in his audience with the king on friday (june 11).
"this is to ensure the country's democratic system is defended," datuk seri ahmad zahid hamidi told reporters following an hour-long meeting with sultan abdullah ahmad shah.
"it's obvious that the government in the past could deal with covid-19 issues without declaring an emergency," mr ahmad zahid said.
the king has been meeting political party leaders at the national palace since wednesday to discuss the pandemic and the government's handling of it.
mr zahid's stance came a day after former prime minister mahathir mohamad, during his own meeting with the king, proposed the setting up of a national operations council (noc) under the state of emergency.
he offered to lead the council.
dr mahathir said the noc, which governed the nation for two years after the may 13, 1969 race riots, allowed malaysia's second prime minister, tun abdul razak hussein, to "solve political problems at the time" by bringing in opposition parties to form a wider barisan nasional ruling coalition that had a stronger majority.
the king is meeting all political party leaders to hear their views about the covid-19 crisis in the country and the state of emergency that was imposed in january, with his consent, to allow the government to curb the spread of the pandemic.
it is due to end in august.
the crisis has worsened during the emergency period, with the country imposing its third lockdown which was due to end on june 14.  the government on friday announced that this would be extended by another two weeks to june 28 .
the king is also meeting the leaders of the malaysian indian congress, which is also part of the pn government, and parti bersatu sabah.
besides tun mahathir, he has met prime minister muhyiddin yassin, opposition leader anwar ibrahim, who is also head of parti keadilan rakyat, as well as other opposition leaders such as the democratic action party's mr lim guan eng and amanah's mr mohamad sabu.
friday is the final day for the face-to-face audience granted to political leaders, and an online meeting has been scheduled with sarawak's ruling party gabungan parti sarawak on monday.
the king will be meeting the country's eight other rulers in a special conference on june 16 to discuss the emergency and covid-19 crisis.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur: united malays national organisation (umno) has pleaded with the king to not extend malaysia's state of emergency beyond aug 1, its president ahmad zahid hamidi said after an audience with the ruler on friday (jun 11).
the party also wanted the parliament to reconvene again to ensure that the country's "democratic system can be defended", ahmad zahid told journalists outside the palace.
umno's stance echoed that of leader of the opposition anwar ibrahim, who called for the state of emergency to end as scheduled in his meeting with king al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah.
al-sultan abdullah has been summoning political party leaders to the palace for meetings this week.
he first met with prime minister muhyiddin yassin for a pre-cabinet meeting, and then granted audiences to mr anwar, parti amanah negara president mohamad sabu and democratic action party secretary-general lim guan eng on wednesday.
on thursday, the king had audiences with leaders of parti islam se-malaysia, malaysian chinese associatio, parti warisan sabah, as well as former prime minister mahathir mohamad, who is heading the yet-to-be-registered parti pejuang tanah air.
those who received a friday slot included mic president s.  a.  vigneswaran and parti bersatu sabah president maximus johnity ongkili, while leaders from sarawak were scheduled to have a virtual audience with the king on monday.
al-sultan abdullah had earlier declared a nationwide state of emergency back in january to curb the spread of covid-19.
parliament, state legislative assemblies and elections are suspended, while economic activities are allowed to continue.
malaysia's covid-19 numbers have continued to rise since january, and as of friday, total caseload stood at 646,411 cases, with 79,848 active cases and 3,684 deaths.
with the parliamentary suspension, the legitimacy of mr muhyiddin's perikatan nasional government formed following a power tussle in february and march last year cannot be challenged in the august house.
mr muhyiddin had said he would advise the king to dissolve the parliament once the pandemic is under control.
speaking to journalists on friday, ahmad zahid said the damage of a prolonged state of emergency would be "too great for the country".
"and it was obvious that even without the emergency, the government could previously handle matters related to fighting the covid-19 pandemic," he said.
ahmad zahid, who is bagan datuk mp, added that parliament meetings would ensure that the government administration is held accountable through checks and balances.
"umno is of the opinion that the parliament is an important official platform to voice the people's grouses, such as moratorium, increasing price of goods, i-sinar and i-lestari 2.
0 and other assistance for everyone," he said, referring to the retirement fund withdrawal programmes.
on dr mahathir's proposal to set up a national operations council to take over the country's administration, ahmad zahid said this was not discussed in his meeting with the king.
the council, better known by its malay abbreviation mageran, was an emergency administrative body established to restore the rule of law in malaysia after the may 13 racial riots in 1969. the opposition alliance pakatan harapan has rejected the proposal on friday, and reiterated its stance that the state of emergency should end immediately and the parliament should reconvene.
meanwhile, the palace said the king is due to meet with the other malay rulers next wednesday for a special discussion on the efforts to fight covid-19 and their implementation during the state of emergency.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
