Umno chief meets Malaysian King, proposes ending emergency and reconvening Parliament, SE Asia News & Top Stories.
jerusalem: the first israeli government in 12 years not led by benjamin netanyahu got down to business on monday (jun 14), with the former prime minister shying away from a handover ceremony with successor naftali bennett.
the right-wing leader's record run in office ended on sunday with parliament approving, by a razor-thin majority of 60-59, a new administration led by bennett, a nationalist whose views mirror netanyahu's on many issues.
in tel aviv, thousands turned out to welcome the result, after four inconclusive elections in two years.
"i am here celebrating the end of an era in israel," said erez biezuner in rabin square.
"we want them to succeed and to unite us again," he added, as flag-waving supporters of the new government sang and danced around him.
a combative netanyahu, 71, said that he would be back sooner than expected.
"if we are destined to go into the opposition, we will do so with our heads held high until we can topple it," he told parliament before bennett was sworn in.
the traditional handover ceremony was not scheduled at the prime minister's office, where netanyahu was expected to meet bennett later on monday to brief him on state matters.
the last time netanyahu was unseated as israel's leader, in 1999, he ended his first term in office with a glass of wine in his hand and affable words of welcome to then labor party leader ehud barak, who defeated him at the polls.
"sour, grumpy, not stately – trump-like until the final moment," yossi verter, a political affairs commentator, wrote in the left-leaning haaretz newspaper.
asked why there would be no such scene now, topaz luk, a senior aide to netanyahu, told army radio: "that's just what happens.
"netanyahu, he said, was "filled with motivation to topple this dangerous government as quickly as possible".
luk declined to disclose netanyahu's comeback strategy, pointing only to the new administration's slim margin of support in parliament.
luk said that the incoming government was receiving briefings from netanyahu's diplomatic and security advisers to ensure an orderly handover.
after holding its first meeting late on sunday, bennett's new cabinet was invited for a traditional group photograph, showcasing incoming governments, at the official residence of president reuven rivlin.
unseating netanyahuwith little in common other than a desire to unseat netanyahu, the patchwork coalition of right-wing, centrist, left-wing and arab parties largely plans to avoid sweeping moves on hot-button issues such as policy towards the palestinians, and to focus instead on domestic reforms.
palestinians were unmoved by the change of administration, predicting that bennett, a former defence chief who advocates annexing parts of the occupied west bank, would pursue the same right-wing agenda as netanyahu.
under the coalition deal, bennett, a 49-year-old orthodox jew and high-tech millionaire, will be replaced as prime minister in 2023 by centrist yair lapid, 57, a popular former television host.
united states president joe biden congratulated bennett and lapid, saying he looked forward to strengthening the "close and enduring" relationship between the two countries.
addressing parliament on sunday, bennett put biden on notice that he would follow in netanyahu's footsteps in opposing any us return to the 2015 iran nuclear deal abrogated by former president donald trump.
netanyahu was israel's longest-serving leader, and had served consecutive terms as prime minister since 2009. he used his global stature to resist calls for palestinian statehood, describing it as a danger to israel's security.
he sought to bypass the palestinian issue by forging diplomatic deals with regional arab states, on the back of shared fears of iran and its nuclear programme.
but he was a divisive figure at home and abroad, weakened by repeated failure to clinch a decisive election victory, and by a corruption trial in which he has denied any wrongdoing.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: gabungan parti sarawak (gps), the ruling coalition in the borneo state, highlighted the importance of a "strong and stable government" as one of the crucial factors in the fight against covid-19 in its meeting with the malaysian king on monday (jun 14).
four top leaders from the coalition were the last group to be granted an audience by king al-​sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shahin a series of meetingswith party chiefs since last wednesday.
in a statement issued after the audience via video conferencing from kuching, chiefs of the parti rakyat sarawak (prs), sarawak united people's party (supp) and progressive democratic party (pdp) said they backed chief minister abang abdul rahman zohari abang openg's position as the coalition chairman on three factors for the covid-19 battle.
"the vaccination programme is to be accelerated and completed by august to achieve herd immunity.
"the presence of a strong and stable government to ensure covid-19 programme and (economic) implementation are well-grounded," the statement read.
the third factor is the implementation of a post-covid-19 economic exit plan, the statement added.
mr abang abdul rahman zohari is the president of parti pesaka bumiputera bersatu (pbb).
the gps was formed in 2018 after the four parties quit barisan nasional following the latter's defeat in the 14th general election.
while not a member of the perikatan nasional coalition, which took over federal administration in a power tussle last year, gps had said that it supported prime minister muhyiddin yassin in the interest of political stability.
the sarawak state election, which was supposed to be held this year, has been postponed as mandated by the state of emergency proclaimed by the king in january.
the palace said king al-​sultan abdullah would meet fellow malay rulers on wednesday to discuss malaysia's efforts to curb the spread of covid-19 and its implementation during the state of emergency.
in last week's royal audiences, leader of the opposition anwar ibrahim pleaded with the kingnot to extend the state of emergency, which was slated to end on aug 1. calling for the same, united malays national organisation president ahmad zahid hamidi said the party also wantedthe parliament to reconvene.
parliament meetings have been suspended since the state of emergency was declared, putting attempts to challenge mr muhyiddin's razor-thin majority on hold.
former prime minister mahathir mohamad, meanwhile, said he is in favour of setting up anational operations councilto help solve the health, economic, and social issues currently plaguing the country.
on monday, malaysia's new daily cases dropped below the 5,000-mark for the first time in close to a month.
a nationwide lockdown was earlierextended by another two weeksto jun 28. mr muhyiddin said on sunday that a national recovery plan in preparation for the country to emerge from the covid-19 pandemic was in the works.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem • mr naftali bennett is a multi-millionaire former tech entrepreneur who made his political name with hardline religious-nationalist rhetoric.
a former defence minister and one-time special forces commando, mr bennett, 49, leads the right-wing yamina party, which has called for israel to annex parts of the occupied west bank.
he is israel's first premier to lead an openly religious lifestyle, with his small skullcap, or kippa, fastened to his head.
mr bennett shares this ideology with former prime minister benjamin netanyahu, having served in several of the latter's governments.
but in recent years, tensions between the two arose and intensified.
mr bennett lives with his wife gilat and four children in the central city of raanana.
the son of us-born parents, mr bennett speaks perfect english, is ultra-liberal on the economy and takes a hardline stance against israel's arch-foe, iran.
he entered politics after selling his tech start-up for us$145 million in 2005, and became chief of staff the next year to mr netanyahu, then in the opposition.
after leaving mr netanyahu's office, mr bennett in 2010 became head of the yesha council, which lobbies for jewish settlers in the west bank.
in 2012, he took charge of the hard-right jewish home party, which was facing annihilation.
he increased its parliamentary presence fourfold, while making headlines with a series of incendiary comments about palestinians.
in 2013, he said palestinian "terrorists should be killed, not released".
he also argued that the west bank was not under occupation as "there was never a palestinian state (in the area", and that the israeli-palestinian conflict could not be resolved but must be endured.
last year, in opposition and with covid-19 raging, mr bennett dampened his right-wing rhetoric to focus on the health crisis.
he moved to broaden his appeal by releasing plans to contain the pandemic and aid the economy.
former supporters and critics have accused him of betraying his nationalist voters by joining a fledgling coalition that includes the dovish meretz party and support from the arab israeli islamic conservative party raam.
but he said he is on a mission to restore israel's governance and avoid a fifth election in little more than two years.
"the core promise of these elections was to extract israel from chaos.
i chose what's good for israel," he said.
agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
analysts say army chief min aung hlaing determined to sideline hugely popular leader and reshape politics free of her influence.
after five years as the de facto leader of myanmar, aung san suu kyi finds herself in a familiar place: under house arrest while facing an eclectic mix of charges levelled by military rulers, with her party, the national league for democracy (nld), on the verge of dissolution.
on monday, more than four months after the military seized power in a coup, the hugely popular politician will face trial in a naypyidaw court on five charges including the illegal possession of walkie-talkies and breaking coronavirus restrictions while campaigning for elections.
military officials have also accused her of corruption and violating the colonial-era official secrets act.
there is a sense of finality about this showdown between aung san suu kyi, and army chief and coup leader, min aung hlaing.
at 75 years old, aung san suu kyi is facing prison sentences that could put her in jail for the rest of her life, permanently sidelining her from a political arena she has defined for decades.
meanwhile, many of her supporters have moved beyond her past calls for non-violent resistance and gradual reform, instead endorsing armed revolt and the total overthrow of the military regime.
"this time around, there is no indication that the regime plans to release aung san suu kyi, allow her to communicate with her supporters, or use her as a bargaining chip in its relations with the outside world.
rather, min aung hlaing wants to have a free hand to shape the political landscape free from the influence of her and the nld," said richard horsey, a political analyst with decades of experience in myanmar.
despite being largely shut off from the outside world for the last four months, she still occupies a central role in the continuing political crisis.
before the generals violently cracked down on protests, killing more than 850 civilians, posters and banners featuring aung san suu kyi's face were a mainstay at most demonstrations.
analysts say army chief min aung hlaing, right, wants to remove aung san suu kyi and the nld from the political landscape [file: myawaddy/afp]"it's far too early to write her off.
she is, without a doubt, by far the most popular political figure in the country, no one else even comes close," said thant myint-u, historian and author of the hidden history of burma.
aung san suu kyi emerged as a political force during the 1988 uprisings against a previous military regime, perfectly primed to take the helm of myanmar's pro-democracy movement during a period of instability.
the daughter of independence icon aung san, she had just returned from the united kingdom, where she had studied at oxford and married a british man.
she became synonymous with myanmar's pro-democracy movement and earned the respect of millions by sacrificing her freedom and safety for the cause, winning the nobel peace prize in 1991.  she spent years in and out of house arrest and survived an assassination attempt in 2003 that left dozens, possibly hundreds, dead.
aung san suu kyi's education and international recognition was also a source of admiration for many of her followers.
but while this was a strength in the eyes of many, it was an insult to the ultra-nationalist military, also known as the tatmadaw, which often insulted the "foreigner's wife".
in 2008, before allowing elections, the military regime drafted a new constitution that allowed it to retain control of several key institutions and guaranteed it 25 percent of the seats in parliament.
it also added a clause banning anyone with a foreign husband or child from serving as president, which many saw as being directly aimed at aung san suu kyi.
with the help of a constitutional lawyer named ko ni, she found a way around this prohibition, taking on the role of state counsellor after the nld's first election victory in 2015.  two years later, ko ni was shot dead.
but while she was a global superstar as an activist, many of her biggest supporters were disappointed once she was in power.
in 2017, hundreds of thousands of mostly muslim rohingya fled into bangladesh as the military unleashed a brutal crackdown in the western state of rakhine.
the nobel prize winner did not condemn the military's actions and, after a case of genocide was brought before the international court of justice in the hague, she travelled to the netherlands to defend what the generals had done.
"aung san suu kyi's domestic popularity only grew as she transitioned from dissident to national leader.
internationally, she fell spectacularly from grace as a result of the violence against the rohingya, in which she was seen as complicit by denying the extent of abuses and defending the military," said horsey.
aung san suu kyi returned home to care for her mother and found herself propelled into politics leading opposition to military rule [file: manny ceneta/afp]activist and protest leader thinzar shunlei yi is one of many young human rights defenders who grew up idolising aung san suu kyi, only to be let down by her time in power.
"she was the reason why i became a woman human rights defender," she said.
but as violence against the rohingya grew, thinzar shunlei yi became one of the only people to speak out against it, putting her at odds with her hero and her throngs of supporters.
"i was outspoken against her and got a lot of backfire," she said.
it was not just during the rohingya crisis where aung san suu kyi failed to live up to expectations.
"she was also seen as deserting her human rights principles when in government in other ways, including her treatment of the free media, civil society and ethnic minority rights," horsey explained.
when two reuters journalists were arrested for exposing the military killings of rohingya civilians, aung san suu kyi said the case "had nothing to do with freedom of expression at all".
during her time in power, journalists and facebook users faced criminal charges for criticising nld politicians.
with nld leadership scattered or in prison after the coup, more progressive activists like thinzar shunlei yi found themselves spearheading the initial resistance movement.
they called for increasingly radical change, like abolishing the military-drafted constitution of 2008, the complete removal of the military from politics, the reform of the discriminatory 1982 citizenship law that helped render the rohingya stateless, and armed revolution rather than non-violent resistance.
these positions were eventually endorsed by the national unity government, a parallel government set up by elected legislators in defiance of the military regime.
thinzar shunlei yi recognised that aung san suu kyi is still "so influential" in the pro-democracy movement, but also worried that her influence could be double-edged.
"even in this revolution, where many people go starving and running for their lives, people still think about her situation and weep for her," she said.
this can help motivate people even when they are beleaguered and losing hope.
but aung san suu kyi might not agree with the armed revolt, abolishing the constitution, or accepting the rohingya as citizens.
"we wonder what if she says something against the current revolution, things would go upside down," thinzar shunlei yi said.
people hold placards of aung san suu kyi in a rally to demand her release and protest against the military coup a week after the generals seized power [file: stringer/reuters]while some have argued that aung san suu kyi backed the military on the rohingya crisis due to fear of a coup or a need to appeal to a nationalist voter base, others say her position simply reflected her genuine beliefs on the issue.
"it's not at all clear that her position on the rohingya was driven by political considerations," horsey said.
"but it certainly meant that, at the time of the coup, she had a much-diminished international reputation at a time when she needed international support the most.
"altogether, aung san suu kyi is facing seven criminal charges; five in the capital city of naypyidaw, one at the supreme court and a recently added corruption charge.
her lawyers are among the only people who have had access to the detained leader since her arrest in february.
the leader of her legal team, khin maung zaw, told al jazeera they met with aung san suu kyi and deposed president win myint on june 7.  khin maung zaw said the five cases in naypyidaw were classified as "simple", with hearings to be held every monday and tuesday until the end of the month.
for the supreme court case, he said the court marked aung san suu kyi down as defending herself, something khin maung zaw said was done "without her knowledge and consent".
"she further said that she told the persons who kept her in custody that she wouldn't defend her cases without a lawyer," he said.
he said that while aung san suu kyi has not been satisfied with the military's arrangement to deliver her medicine regularly, she and the other two politicians "seemed to be in good health".
when asked about her spirits, khin maung zaw said, "unlike me, she's full of optimism".
on wednesday, the military revealed new corruption charges against aung san suu kyi for allegedly taking bribes and leasing land at discounted rates, which carry an additional prison sentence of 15 years.
khin maung zaw said the latest accusation is "absurd" and "groundless".
"she might have defects but personal greed and corruption is not her traits," he said, calling her "incorruptible".
michael aris, the late husband of aung san suu kyi, stands with their two sons alexander, left, and kim, right, at the nobel prize ceremony in oslo town hall on december 10, 1991 [stringer/reuters]given the nature of the trials, thinzar shunlei yi calls on aung san suu kyi to "join cdm" by "boycotting the judicial system".
cdm stands for the civil disobedience movement, a mass strike of civil servants refusing to work under the military regime.
"i don't trust the domestic judicial system and i don't think the [military] will do a fair trial for her and other leaders," she said.
while the outcome of the trial appears inevitable, thant myint-u says that what happened in myanmar was not.
"there was no way the army was going to agree to constitutional reform," thant myint-u said.
"but a visionary economic agenda that brought in billions in fresh investment and created millions of new jobs, together with measures to fight discrimination, build a more inclusive national identity, and work closely with civil society, could have outflanked the army leadership, and perhaps even won over many in the officer corps.
"al jazeera takes a look at the leader's life and how she went from being an icon of democracy to courting controversy.
what we know so far about monday's coup in myanmar.
why did myanmar's military overthrow the government?
and what does it mean for democracy?machine-gun fire, sleeping in safe houses and waking every morning anxious to find out who has been arrested overnight.
follow al jazeera english:
in established democracies, the tradition is for a defeated leader to act graciously toward the victor — to make a show of national unity despite the rage and humiliation that might be burning inside.
former president donald trump flushed that tradition down a gold-plated toilet, along with many other democratic norms.
he not only refused to show up at president biden's inaugural but continues to this day to accuse biden of being an illegitimate president who was fraudulently elected.
you would think other democratic leaders would recoil from trump's odious example.
not former israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu.
in leaving office, bibi, as he is known, is showing himself to be as graceless and selfish as the master of mar-a-lago.
like trump, he refused to attend the inauguration of his successor — the new right-wing prime minister, naftali bennett, who leads a coalition government with the centrist yair lapid.
shortly before the vote in the knesset that confirmed his downfall, netanyahu delivered an angry, vituperative, scorched-earth speech full of trumpian invective.
it truly has to be read for its awfulness and pettiness to be believed.
netanyahu began with lots of self-praise before segueing into attacks on the "dangerous" new government.
although bennett is also a critic of the nuclear deal with iran, bibi claimed that his former protege won't stand up to the biden administration like he would.
he even attacked president franklin d.  roosevelt for not bombing german concentration camps and the railways leading to them in 1944.  this was by way of suggesting that the united states is again doing nothing to save the jewish people from "extermination," while bibi alone protects the jews.
he claimed that bennett "doesn't have the international standing" to oppose a nuclear agreement — and won't do what netanyahu did when he spoke to congress in 2015 against the nuclear deal.
this is several orders of crazy historical revisionism.
first, historians doubt that u. s.  bombing could have stopped or even significantly slowed the holocaust.
second, netanyahu's speech to congress did not stop the nuclear accord — it only alienated then-president barack obama and other democrats, while aligning netanyahu with the republicans.
that partisanship has done long-term damage to the u. s. -israel alliance.
third, and most importantly, the iranian threat against israel has actually grown since trump, at netanyahu's urging, pulled out of the nuclear accord in 2018.  since then, iran has ramped up its nuclear program, while stepping up the production of missiles and drones and its support for regional allies such as hamas and hezbollah.
yet netanyahu claimed that iran is "celebrating" his downfall.
as if it weren't enough to accuse the new government of endangering israel's security, netanyahu also argued that it will endanger israel's economy.
"try to ruin our wonderful economy as little as possible," he said, "so that we can fix it as quickly as possible when we return to power.
"bibi then delivered his own version of trump's phony claims about a "rigged" election.
"the vote counting was kosher," netanyahu admitted, "but the winning of the votes was done fraudulently.
bennett led astray hundreds of thousands of right-wing voters and transferred their votes from the right to the left. "
as if israeli voters did not realize that in casting ballots for the parties led by bennett and his allies, they were voting to remove netanyahu from office.
because the new coalition government is backed by an israeli-arab party, bibi accused it of being the handmaiden of "extreme islam.
"bibi's final blast was very trumpian in its self-pity.
"my family and i have been through hunting, prosecution and denigration, the likes of which has never been seen," he said.
"all so that i will bow down and surrender to the left. "
just as trump claims to be fighting for "forgotten americans," so bibi insisted, "i did not surrender because i am operating in the name of a large public of millions of citizens, as the servant of a millennia old ancient people, wishing to sit in peace and security in its own land.
"what nonsense.
netanyahu is facing corruption charges in an israeli court.
the reason he did not "surrender" — the reason he put the country through four elections in less than two years — has nothing to do with the interests of "millions of citizens" and everything to do with his self-interest.
he has been desperately clinging to power in the hopes of getting the knesset to pass a law that would render a prime minister immune to prosecution.
netanyahu has genuine accomplishments to boast of — from israel's covid-19 vaccination campaign to winning recognition of israel from four muslim states.
he is much smarter than trump and much more skilled at politics.
but his farewell speech shows why so many of his former allies turned against him and ultimately turfed him out of office.
like trump, netanyahu suffers from a crippling character defect.
he lies, schemes and backstabs because politics, for him, is ultimately about self-promotion — not national service.
his farewell address showed why he should never be given another chance to lead.
read more:jennifer rubin: like the u. s. , israel bids goodbye to an unhinged leaderyousef munayyer: why a new israeli government won't mean justice or peace for palestiniansdavid ignatius: inside the palace intrigue in jordan and a thwarted 'deal of the century'jackson diehl: netanyahu's reaction to biden's victory is appallingthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
israel's knessett voted to depose longtime prime minister benjamin netanyahu on sunday, ending (for now) the bibi era.
with the inclusion of a member from the arab ra'am party  in the nation's new governing coalition, the jewish state now has an opportunity to usher in an era of reconciliation.
arab-jewish relations in israel have always been tense.
israel kept arab areas under martial law from its founding in 1948 until 1966.  most israeli arabs are not required to serve in the israeli defense forces and relatively few volunteer, although their participation rose during the pandemic.
they compose roughly 21 percent of the population, but nearly all israeli arabs still live in nearly monolithically arab-populated towns.
they remain poorer and less-educated than israeli jews, even as they have equal political and legal rights.
it's no surprise, then, that arab voters have rarely supported mainstream jewish political parties.
arab parties have traditionally received about 80 percent of the vote from israeli arabs, and those parties have largely been either extreme leftists, such as the communist-backed hadash, or been connected to palestinian nationalism, such as ahmad tibi's ta'al.
the latter is so prominent and so loathed by the israeli right that netanyahu's campaign slogan in the 2020 election was "bibi or tibi," a reference to how netanyahu's opponents would have had to likely rely on the votes of tibi's party in the knesset to prevail.
those parties, needless to say, could not be part of any governing coalition.
israeli arabs who do vote for jewish parties also tend to vote heavily for those on the left, such as meretz or labor.
since there has not been a prime minister from the left since the 1999 election, this means that israel's arabs have largely been politically sidelined for decades.
the result is that many israeli arabs feel disengaged from the nation in which they live, voting at much lower rates than jews.
israel's jewish politicians are no dummies, so many started to court the arab sector in this year's election.
they knew that even a small uptick in votes could make the difference in a nation split down the middle.
the most shocking volte face came from netanyahu himself, who actively campaigned in arab towns pledging to increase funding for arab priorities.
that effort helped him somewhat, as his likud party's share of the vote rose in many arab towns.
but the real winner was an arab himself, mansour abbas.
abbas is the leader of the conservative islamist ra'am party.
ra'am is the political arm of the southern branch of that country's muslim brotherhood, and its charter strongly condemns zionism.
abbas, however, put those concerns to the side and ran on a simple platform of bread-and-butter concerns.
he went into the election arguing that israeli arabs have a lot to gain if they deal with the jewish majority rather than fight it.
he said he was open to supporting either netanyahu or his opponent, and focused his demands on fighting rampant crime in the arab community, legalizing bedouin settlements that israel has not recognized, and increasing funding for economic development.
his party surprised most observers by passing the electoral threshold and entering the knesset, israel's parliament, with four seats.
the results confirmed israel's roughly even split between pro- and anti-netanyahu factions, making abbas the country's kingmaker.
the 47-year-old abbas exploited his crucial position masterfully.
he went on israeli television in april, giving a prime-time speech in hebrew declaring that he is a "proud arab and muslim, [and] a citizen of the state of israel. "
he negotiated with both sides, and could have easily ended up backing netanyahu had ra'am's participation in a pro-netanyahu government not been blocked by bezalel smotrich, the leader of the religious zionist party.
he ended up providing the crucial votes for a government led by israel's first orthodox jewish prime minister, naftali bennett.
abbas got everything he wanted, including a promise to spend 53 billion israeli new shekels — about $16 billion — on fighting crime in arab towns and "reduc[ing] gaps" between the jewish and arab sectors.
this unprecedented political involvement heralds the chance for a new understanding between israel's jews and arabs.
much as the abraham accords promise the chance for reconciliation between jews and arabs among arab states, these abbas accords promise the chance for domestic reconciliation as well.
ethnic violence erupted within israel during the recent war with hamas, starkly demonstrating how important improving relations with israeli arabs is to israeli security.
if abbas can succeed, more arabs will see that they have a concrete stake in israel's future.
that can only make israel's future even brighter.
israel shall always be, as its basic law says, a jewish and democratic state.
sunday's historic vote will help israeli arabs to see themselves as an honored part of that state.
sign up to receive my columns in your inbox as soon as they're published.
read more:fareed zakaria: the only way to solve the israeli-palestinian problemjennifer rubin: like the u. s. , israel bids goodbye to an unhinged leaderhenry olsen: the latest bipartisan infrastructure deal is likely dead on arrival.
biden should reconsider.
david ignatius: what the u. s.  should learn from israel's odd-couple proposed governmentthe post's view: after a bloody weekend, israel needs a cease-fire as much as hamasthe latest: israeli security chief issues rare warning over potential for jan.  6-style mob violence ahead of netanyahu departureanalysis: the era of netanyahu is over — or is it?naftali bennett, set to be israel's next leader, represents a break with its more secular pastwhat to know about naftali bennett, the israeli politician poised to succeed benjamin netanyahuthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem • israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu's record 12-year hold on power was set to end yesterday when the knesset, or parliament, votes on a new government, ushering in an administration that has pledged to heal a nation bitterly divided over his departure.
mr netanyahu, the most dominant israeli politician of his generation, had failed to form a government after the march 23 election, the fourth in two years.
mr naftali bennett, a hawkish tech millionaire, was poised to replace him as head of a new government of unlikely allies that include left-wing, centrist and arab legislators, which he cobbled together with opposition leader yair lapid.
parliament convened to approve the government in a confidence vote that would follow speeches and a debate set to take several hours.
after its ratification, the new cabinet would be sworn in.
mr bennett, 49, an orthodox jew, will serve as premier for two years before mr lapid, a former tv host, takes over.
"thank you benjamin netanyahu for your lengthy and achievement-filled service on behalf of the state of israel," mr bennett said in a speech at the start of the session.
the government, including for the first time a party that represents israel's 21 per cent arab minority, plans largely to avoid sweeping moves on hot-button international issues such as policy towards the palestinians, and to focus on domestic reforms.
with little to no prospect of progress towards resolving the decades-long conflict with israel, many palestinians will be unmoved by the change of administration, saying mr bennett will likely pursue the same right-wing agenda as mr netanyahu.
that looked likely regarding israel's top security concern, iran.
a bennett spokesman said he would vow "vigorous opposition" should the united states return to the 2015 iranian nuclear deal but would seek cooperation with the administration of us president joe biden.
"love you, thank you!"
mr netanyahu wrote in a message yesterday, illustrated with a heart emoji, to the israeli public on twitter that featured a photo of the 71-year-old leader against the backdrop of an israeli flag.
on the international stage, with his polished english and booming baritone voice, the telegenic mr netanyahu has become the face of israel.
serving his first term as prime minister in the 1990s and since 2009 winning four more terms in succession, he has been a polarising figure, both abroad and at home.
he is loved by his supporters and loathed by critics.
his ongoing corruption trial on charges he denies has only deepened the chasm.
his opponents have long reviled what they see as mr netanyahu's divisive rhetoric, underhanded political tactics and subjection of state interests to his own political survival.
celebrations by his opponents to mark the end of the netanyahu era began late on saturday outside his official residence in jerusalem, the site of weekly protests for the past year, where a black banner stretched across a wall read: "bye bye, bibi, bye bye", referring to him by his nickname, bibi.
demonstrators sang, beat drums and danced.
but for mr netanyahu's large and loyal voter base, the departure of "king bibi" may be difficult to accept.
his supporters are angered by what they see as israel turning its back on a leader dedicated to its security and a bulwark against international pressure for any steps that could lead to a palestinian state, even as he clinched diplomatic deals with the united arab emirates, bahrain, morocco and sudan.
none of those moves, however, nor the role he played in securing covid-19 vaccines for israel's world-beating inoculation campaign, were enough to grant his likud party sufficient votes to secure him a sixth term.
mr bennett has drawn anger from within the right-wing camp for breaking a campaign pledge by joining forces with mr lapid.
he has countered that another election a likely outcome if no government were formed would have been a disaster for israel.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
keep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storiesa motley alliance of israeli parties on sunday ended benjamin netanyahu's 12 straight years as prime minister, as parliament voted in a new government led by his former ally, right-wing jewish nationalist naftali bennett.
bennett, a tech millionaire and former special forces commander, was sworn in at the helm of an ideologically divided eight-party bloc united only by disdain for the country's longest-serving prime minister.
netanyahu, 71, in typically combative style, vowed shortly before his defeat that "if it's our destiny to be in the opposition, we'll do so with our heads high until we take down this bad government and return to lead the country our way".
beloved as "king bibi" and "mr security" by his right-wing supporters and condemned as the "crime minister" by his critics, netanyahu has long dominated israeli politics.
but on sunday, a vote in the knesset legislature following weeks of political drama ended his government with a razor-thin majority of 60 to 59 in the 120-seat chamber.
us president joe biden swiftly congratulated bennett.
"i look forward to working with prime minister bennett to strengthen all aspects of the close and enduring relationship between our two nations.
israel has no better friend than the united states," he said in a statement.
delighted revelers packed a square near the knesset (parliament) in jerusalem and poured into tel aviv's city centre to celebrate netanyahu's fall.
throngs of people gathered in the coastal city, clapping, cheering and waving flags.
in tel aviv's rabin square, netanyahu's opponents launched into celebrations, waving "bye bye bibi" placards.
fragile coalition -bennett, 49, told the knesset before the vote that his government "represents all of israel".
he said the country, after four inconclusive elections in under two years, had been thrown "into a maelstrom of hatred and in-fighting".
"the time has come for different leaders, from all parts of the population, to stop, to stop this madness", he said, to angry shouts of "liar" and "criminal" from right-wing opponents.
netanyahu, who is battling corruption charges in a trial he dismisses as a conspiracy, has been the dominant israeli politician of his generation, having also served a previous three-year term in the 1990s.
his supporters have hailed him as a defender of israel who has been tough on archfoe iran, but who also struck a series of historic normalisation deals with arab nations last year.
being ousted from the top job leaves netanyahu more exposed to his legal troubles, denying him the chance to push through legislation that could give him immunity.
bennett, a former defence minister under netanyahu, vowed to keep israel safe from iran, promising that "israel won't let iran have nuclear weapons", a goal the islamic republic denies pursuing.
netanyahu claimed iran saw "celebrating" the birth of a "dangerous", weak left-wing government.
the diverse anti-netanyahu bloc was cobbled together by the secular centrist yair lapid, a former tv presenter.
it spans the political spectrum, with three right-wing, two centrist and two left-wing parties, and even an arab islamic conservative party.
lapid, 57, is to serve as foreign minister for the next two years before taking over from bennett.
german chancellor angela merkel on sunday congratulated bennett in comments tweeted by her spokeswoman: "germany and israel are connected by a unique friendship that we want to strengthen further.
with this in mind, i look forward to working closely with you.
"canadian prime minister justin trudeau sent a message of congratulations, adding that ottawa "remains steadfast in its commitment to a two-state solution, with israelis and palestinians living in peace, security, and dignity – without fear and with their human rights respected".
british foreign secretary dominic raab tweeted: "i look forward to continued cooperation on security, trade and climate change, and working together to secure peace in the region.
"european council president charles michel also tweeted his congratulations.
'fraud' -the improbable alliance emerged weeks after an 11-day war between israel and hamas, the islamist group that rules the palestinian enclave of gaza, and following inter-communal violence in israeli cities with significant arab populations.
netanyahu, a mastermind at navigating israel's fractious politics, had tried in vain to peel off defectors, hoping to deprive the nascent coalition of its hard-won majority.
he accused bennett of "fraud" for siding with rivals.
angry rallies by the premier's likud party supporters resulted in security being bolstered for some lawmakers.
as his grip on power slipped, netanyahu's bombastic remarks drew parallels to former us president donald trump, who described his election loss last year as the result of a rigged vote.
sunday's knesset approval also came amid heightened tensions with the palestinians.
right-wing israelis are also angered over last week's postponement of a controversial jewish nationalist march through flashpoint areas of east jerusalem.
the "march of the flags" is now slated for tuesday, representing a key early test for the new government.
gaza's rulers hamas said political developments in jerusalem wouldn't change their position on israel.
"the form the israeli government takes doesn't change the nature of our relationship," said the group's spokesman fawzi barhoum.
"it's still a colonising and occupying power that we must resist.
"mdo/har/jjit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
jerusalem: naftali bennett, who was sworn in sunday (jun 13) asisrael's new prime minister, embodies many of the contradictions that define the 73-year-old nation.
he's a religious jew who made millions in the mostly secular hi-tech sector; a champion of the settlement movement who lives in a tel aviv suburb; a former ally of benjamin netanyahu who has partnered with centrist and left-wing parties to end his 12-year rule.
his ultranationalist yamina party won just seven seats in the 120-member knesset in march elections the fourth such vote in two years.
but by refusing to commit to netanyahu or his opponents, bennett positioned himself as kingmaker.
even after one member of his religious nationalist party abandoned him to protest the new coalition deal, he ended up with the crown.
here's a look at israel's next leader:an ultranationalist with a moderate coalitionbennett has long positioned himself to the right of netanyahu.
but he will be severely constrained by his unwieldy coalition, which has only a narrow majority in parliament and includes parties from the right, left and centre.
he is opposed to palestinian independence and strongly supports jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem, which the palestinians and much of the international community see as a major obstacle to peace.
bennett fiercely criticised netanyahu after the prime minister agreed to slow settlement construction under pressure from president barack obama, who tried and failed to revive the peace process early in his first term.
he briefly served as head of the west bank settler's council, yesha, before entering the knesset in 2013.  bennett later served as cabinet minister of diaspora affairs, education and defence in various netanyahu-led governments.
"he's a right-wing leader, a security hard-liner, but at the same time very pragmatic," said yohanan plesner, head of the israel democracy institute, who has known bennett for decades and served with him in the military.
he expects bennett to engage with other factions to find a "common denominator" as he seeks support and legitimacy as a national leader.
rivalry with netanyahuthe 49-year-old father of four shares netanyahu's hawkish approach to the middle east conflict, but the two have had tense relations over the years.
bennett served as netanyahu's chief of staff for two years, but they parted ways after a mysterious falling out that israeli media linked to netanyahu's wife, sara, who wields great influence over her husband's inner circle.
bennett campaigned as a right-wing stalwart ahead of the march elections and signed a pledge on national tv saying he would never allow yair lapid, a centrist and netanyahu's main rival, to become prime minister.
but when it became clear netanyahu was unable to form a ruling coalition, that's exactly what bennett did, agreeing to serve as prime minister for two years before handing power to lapid, the architect of the new coalition.
netanyahu's supporters have branded bennett a traitor, saying he defrauded voters.
bennett has defended his decision as a pragmatic move aimed at unifying the country and avoiding a fifth round of elections.
a generational shiftbennett, a modern orthodox jew, will be israel's first prime minister who regularly wears a kippa, the skullcap worn by observant jews.
he lives in the upscale tel aviv suburb of raanana, rather than the settlements he champions.
bennett began life with his american-born parents in haifa, then bounced with his family between north america and israel, military service, law school and the private sector.
throughout, he's curated a persona that's at once modern, religious and nationalist.
after serving in the elite sayeret matkal commando unit, bennett went to law school at hebrew university.
in 1999, he co-founded cyota, an anti-fraud software company that was sold in 2005 to us-based rsa security for us$145 million.
bennett has said the bitter experience of israel's 2006 war against the lebanese militant group hezbollah drove him to politics.
the monthlong war ended inconclusively, and israel's military and political leadership at the time was widely criticised as bungling the campaign.
bennett represents a third generation of israeli leaders, after the founders of the state and netanyahu's generation, which came of age during the country's tense early years marked by repeated wars with arab states.
"he's israel 3.
0," anshel pfeffer, a columnist for israel's left-leaning haaretz newspaper, wrote in a recent profile of bennett.
"a jewish nationalist but not really dogmatic.
a bit religious, but certainly not devout.
a military man who prefers the comforts of civilian urban life and a high-tech entrepreneur who isn't looking to make any more millions.
a supporter of the greater land of israel but not a settler.
and he may well not be a lifelong politician either.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
jerusalem: israel's parliament on sunday (jun 13) narrowly approved a new coalition government, ending the historic 12-year rule of prime minister benjamin netanyahu and sending the polarising leader into the opposition.
naftali bennett,a former ally of netanyahu turned rival, became prime minister after the 60-59 vote.
promising to try to heal a divided nation, bennett will preside over a diverse and fragile coalition comprised of eight parties with deep ideological differences.
but the 71-year-old netanyahu made clear he has no intention of exiting the political stage.
"if it is destined for us to be in the opposition, we will do it with our backs straight until we topple this dangerous government and return to lead the country," he said.
the vote, capping a stormy parliamentary session, ended a two-year cycle of political paralysis in which the country held four deadlocked elections.
those votes focused largely on netanyahu's divisive rule and his fitness to remain in office while on trial for corruption charges.
to his supporters, netanyahu is a global statesman uniquely capable of leading the country through its many security challenges.
but to his critics, he has become a polarising and autocratic leader who used divide-and-rule tactics to aggravate the many rifts in israeli society.
those include tensions between jews and arabs, and within the jewish majority between his religious and nationalist base and his more secular and dovish opponents.
outside the knesset, hundreds of protesters watching the vote on a large screen erupted into applause when the new government was approved.
thousands of people, many waving israeli flags, gathered in central tel aviv's rabin square to celebrate.
president joe biden quickly congratulated the new government.
"i look forward to working with prime minister bennett to strengthen all aspects of the close and enduring relationship between our two nations," he said in a statement after a g7 meeting in england wrapped up.
he said his administration is fully committed to working with the new government "to advance security, stability, and peace for israelis, palestinians, and people throughout the broader region.
"bennett tweeted: "thank you mr president!
i look forward to working with you to strengthen the ties between our two nations.
"much of the opposition to netanyahu was personal.
three of the eight parties in the new government, including bennett's yamina, are headed by former netanyahu allies who share his hard-line ideology but had deep personal disputes with him.
bennett, 49, is a former chief of staff to netanyahu whose small party is popular with religious jews and west bank settlers.
as he addressed the raucous debate, he was repeatedly heckled and shouted down by netanyahu's supporters accusing him of betrayal.
bennett, an observant jew, noted that the ancient jewish people twice lost their homeland in biblical times due to bitter infighting.
"this time, at the decisive moment, we have taken responsibility," he said.
"to continue on in this way more elections, more hatred, more vitriolic posts on facebook is just not an option.
therefore we stopped the train, a moment before it barrelled into the abyss.
"bennett, a millionaire former high-tech entrepreneur, faces a tough test maintaining an unwieldy coalition of parties from the political right, left and centre.
the coalition, including a small islamist faction that is making history as the first arab party to sit in a coalition, agree on little beyond their opposition to netanyahu.
they are likely to pursue a modest agenda that seeks to reduce tensions with the palestinians and maintain good relations with the us without launching any major initiatives.
"we will forge forward on that which we agree and there is much we agree on, transport, education and so on, and what separates us we will leave to the side," bennett said.
he also promised a "new page" in relations with israel's arab sector.
israel's arab citizens make up about 20 per cent of the population, but have suffered from discrimination, poverty and lack of opportunities.
netanyahu has often tried portray arab politicians as terrorist sympathisers, though he also courted the same arab party in a failed effort to remain in power after mar 23 elections.
bennett, who like netanyahu opposes the establishment of a palestinian state, made little mention of the palestinians beyond threatening a tough response to violence.
he also vowed, like netanyahu, to oppose us-led efforts to restore the international nuclear accord with iran.
"israel will not allow iran to arm itself with nuclear weapons," he said.
"israel is not party to the agreement and will maintain full freedom to act.
"but he also thanked biden for his support of israel.
he promised to take a different approach than netanyahu, who has alienated much of the democratic party through his antagonistic relationship with then-president barack obama and close ties with former president donald trump.
"my government will make an effort to deepen and nurture relations with our friends in both parties bipartisan," bennett said.
"if there are disputes, we will manage them with fundamental trust and mutual respect.
"while bennett's speech was conciliatory, netanyahu's was confrontational.
he began by boasting of his achievements, including diplomatic treaties with four arab states and a successful coronavirus vaccination drive, before belittling the man who is replacing him.
he accused bennett of abandoning israel's right-wing electorate and joining weak "leftists" to become prime minister.
he said bennett did not have the backbone to stand up to iran or pressure from the us to make concessions to the palestinians.
"i will lead you in the daily struggle against this evil and dangerous leftist government in order to topple it," he said.
"god willing, it will happen a lot faster than what you think.
"in the opposition, netanyahu remains head of the largest party in parliament.
the new coalition is a patchwork of small and midsize parties that could collapse if any of its members decide to bolt.
bennett's party, for instance, holds just six seats in the 120-seat parliament.
yohanan plesner, president of the israel democracy institute, a nonpartisan think tank, said the new government will likely be more stable than it appears.
each party in the coalition will want to prove that it can deliver.
for that, they need "time and achievements," he said.
still, netanyahu "will continue to cast a shadow", plesner said.
the driving force behind the coalition is yair lapid, a political centrist who will become prime minister in two years in a rotation agreement with bennett, if the government lasts that long.
lapid called off a planned speech, saying he was ashamed that his 86-year-old mother had to witness the raucous behavior of his opponents.
"i wanted her to be proud of the democratic process in israel.
instead she, along with every citizen of israel, is ashamed of you and remembers clearly why it's time to replace you," he said.
netanyahu's place in israeli history is secure, having served as prime minister for a total of 15 years more than any other, including the country's founding father, david ben-gurion.
but his reputation as a political magician has faded particularly since he was indicted in 2019 for fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes.
he refused calls to step down, instead lashing out at the media, judiciary and law enforcement, going so far as to accuse his political opponents of orchestrating an attempted coup.
last year, protesters began holding weekly rallies across the country calling on him to resign.
netanyahu remains popular among the hard-line nationalists who dominate israeli politics, but he could soon face a leadership challenge from within his own party.
a less polarising likud leader would stand a good chance of assembling the right-wing coalition that netanyahu had hoped to form.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the outgoing israeli prime minister and his supporters are already trying to undermine the new coalition government.
will it survive?the netanyahu family is experienced in moving its belongings out of the official prime minister's residence on jerusalem's balfour street.
in 2016, prime minister benjamin netanyahu told a group of stunned settlers being evicted from their homes in the illegal west bank outpost of amona, "i understand what it means to lose a home.
after the 1999 elections, with zero warning, me and my family were simply kicked out of the house on balfour street.
just like that, with all of our belongings, we were just thrown into the street.
we had to go to the sheraton plaza hotel, it felt terrible.
"the likud party won 19 knesset seats in the 1999 elections, seven fewer than the labor party, led by ehud barak.
barak's government, just like the one sworn in on june 13, was a diverse coalition of parties, with meretz on the left, the hamerkaz party in the centre and the ultra-orthodox parties on the right.
the partnership lasted less than two years.
what can that short-lived government teach us about the future of israel's new government led by yamina party leader naftali bennett and yesh atid party head yair lapid?
what are the prospects of their diverse coalition comprising parties from the conservative jewish right, whose leaders are committed to the settlement enterprise, and lawmakers from the meretz party that boycotts goods made in the settlements?
can the fierce women's rights campaigner merav michaeli, chair of the labor party, get along with conservative interior minister ayelet shaked who has pledged to deport asylum seekers and their families?the cards that prime minister naftali bennett is holding are far worse than those barak was dealt in 1999.  first of all, there has never been an israeli prime minister, nor a leader of any democracy, whose party only won 6 percent of the vote (translated into seven seats in the 120-member knesset, one of whom is opposed to the new government).
bennett is a default option, the best of three highly imperfect alternatives, the other two being the continued rule of benjamin netanyahu after 12 years in power, or a fifth round of elections widely expected to perpetuate the political deadlock.
the new government, both its makeup and guidelines, is thus hardly the ideal choice of its left-wing or right-wing components.
bennett, as well as yisrael beitenu party leader avigdor lieberman and new hope party chair gideon saar, would have felt more comfortable in the company of their former likud party colleagues than seated alongside representatives of labor, meretz and the palestinian ra'am (united arab list) parties.
the common denominator of the new government is its disgust with netanyahu's personality and with his indictment on corruption charges.
the centre-right partners of the new government are in tune with his ideology and with his foreign and defence policies.
presumably, if netanyahu cedes his leadership of the likud, or if his party colleagues muster the courage to unseat him, many in the new government would negotiate a partnership with the likud.
however, netanyahu declared war on his successor even before he started packing and moving to the opposition benches.
netanyahu of 2021 is not the same young prime minister defeated 22 years ago who took time off from politics.
this time, he enjoys the backing of hot-headed legions of supporters and an army of violent bots.
in the government's final days, with the ground burning under their feet, leaders of the ultra-orthodox parties and their rabbis joined the chorus of incitement against bennett.
the language they adopted, and their threats of hell were reminiscent of the atmosphere that prevailed in the months prior to the november 1995 assassination of prime minister yitzhak rabin.
one of the new government's first challenges will be to douse these flames, restore trust in the country's legal system, police and the media, and try to instil respect for pluralism.
the architects of the strange bennett-lapid coalition were well aware that the opposition would identify cracks in its edifice and plant explosives to blow it up.
these explosives include legislation on highly sensitive issues, such as the relationship between religion and state, the annexation of palestinian territories, lgbtq rights and the recognition of the progressive streams of judaism challenging the monopoly of the ultra-orthodox establishment.
to defuse these time bombs, the coalition agreement perpetuates the status quo on each of these issues.
however, netanyahu has a new type of tnt at his disposal in the shape of arch-nationalist knesset member itamar ben-gvir and his arab-hating coterie.
ben-gvir was elected to the knesset this year with netanyahu's support, and is exploiting his parliamentary immunity to violate the status quo at the most volatile venues – jerusalem's muslim holy sites.
netanyahu can rely on hamas and islamic jihad to respond to ben-gvir's provocations.
and what would bennett do if rockets from gaza are fired at jerusalem in response to a visit by jewish knesset members to the al-aqsa mosque/temple mount compound, sacred to both jews and muslims?
would the two arab members of the new government, islamist ra'am chair mansour abbas and regional cooperation minister issawi frej of meretz vote in favour of retaliation against gaza and the killing of palestinian civilians?
and would lieberman and saar vote for restraint if israelis are killed in a hamas attack?and would the staunchly pro-settlement bennett, respect a court ruling to demolish the 40 homes in the illegal west bank outpost of evyatar?
how would he manoeuvre between pressure from the american administration to pursue diplomatic negotiations with the palestinians on the two-state solution, his centre-left partners who support the establishment of a palestinian state and his own strong statements against it, let alone the resentment of his partners from the right-wing parties?the negotiations on a new nuclear deal with iran are yet another obstacle facing the new government, which will force it to adopt an extremely difficult decision.
if he adheres to netanyahu's militant policy opposing the agreement, bennett will place himself on a collision course with the biden administration which will be in power throughout his two-year term.
on the other hand, if the government agrees to go along with the biden administration's policy, netanyahu is likely to launch a public campaign accusing the new government of "abandoning the jewish people to a second holocaust".
throughout his long rule, netanyahu was considered a magician walking on tightropes without a safety net.
bennett saw his performance up close when he served as his chief of staff when he was opposition leader between 2006 and 2008.  to survive in power long enough to start fixing some of the damage netanyahu has inflicted on israeli society, bennett will have to surpass his former master.
the views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial stance.
follow al jazeera english:
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem (reuters) benjamin netanyahu's record 12-year run as israel's prime minister ended on sunday (june 13) with parliament approving a new "government of change" led by nationalist naftali bennett, an improbable scenario few israelis could have imagined.
but the razor-thin 60-59 vote of confidence in a coalition of left-wing, centrist, right-wing and arab parties with little in common except for a desire to unseat mr netanyahu only underscored its likely fragility.
addressing parliament before mr bennett was sworn in, a combative mr netanyahu said: "if we are destined to go into the opposition, we will do so with our heads held high until we can topple it. "
that will happen, the 71-year-old netanyahu added, "sooner than people think".
the new government, formed after an inconclusive march 23 election, plans largely to avoid sweeping moves on hot-button international issues such as policy toward the palestinians, and to focus on domestic reforms.
palestinians were unmoved by the change of administration, predicting that mr bennett, a former defence chief who advocates annexing parts of the occupied west bank, would pursue the same right-wing agenda as likud party leader netanyahu.
israel's longest-serving leader, mr netanyahu was prime minister since 2009, after a first term from 1996 to 1999. but he was weakened by his repeated failure to clinch victory in four elections over the past two years, including a vote in march, and by an ongoing corruption trial, in which he has denied any wrongdoing.
under the coalition deal, mr bennett, a 49-year-old orthodox jew and high-tech millionaire, will be replaced as prime minister by centrist yair lapid, 57, a popular former television host, in 2023. with his far-right yamina party winning only six of parliament's 120 seats in the last election, mr bennett's ascension to the premiership as the head of a kaleidoscope of parties was a political jaw-dropper.
interrupted by non-stop shouts of "liar" and "shame" from netanyahu loyalists in parliament, mr bennett thanked him for his "lengthy and achievement-filled service on behalf of the state of israel".
but little love has been lost between the two men: mr bennett once served as mr netanyahu's chief of staff and had a rocky relationship with him as defence minister.
in the run-up to the new government, bennett spurned mr netanyahu's call to join with him, rather than with mr lapid.
on the international stage, with his polished english and booming baritone voice, mr netanyahu has become the face of israel.
he has resisted international calls for palestinian statehood he has described as a danger to israel's security, while forging formal relations with the united arab emirates, bahrain, morocco and sudan and decrying iran's nuclear programme.
united states president joe biden congratulated mr bennett, mr lapid and the rest of the new cabinet and said he looked forward to working with mr bennett to strengthen the "close and enduring" relationship between their two countries.
"my administration is fully committed to working with the new israeli government to advance security, stability, and peace for israelis, palestinians, and people throughout the broader region," he said in a statement.
both abroad and at home, mr netanyahu has been a polarising figure.
often referred to by his nickname bibi, mr netanyahu is loved by his supporters and loathed by critics.
his ongoing corruption trial – on charges he denies – has only deepened the rift.
his opponents have long reviled what they see as mr netanyahu's divisive rhetoric, underhand political tactics and subjection of state interests to his own political survival.
some have dubbed him "crime minister" and have accused him of mishandling the coronavirus crisis and its economic fall-out.
addressing parliament, mr bennett echoed mr netanyahu's call for the us not to return to the 2015 nuclear pact between iran and world powers, a deal abrogated by mr biden's predecessor donald trump.
"renewal of the nuclear agreement with iran is a mistake, an error that would again grant legitimisation to one of the darkest and violent regimes in the world," mr bennett said.
"israel will not allow iran to equip itself with nuclear weapons.
"thanking mr biden for his "years of commitment to israel's security", and for "standing by israel" during fighting with hamas militants in gaza last month, mr bennett said his government would pursue good relations with us democrats and republicans.
"the government will make an effort to deepen and enhance our relations with both parties – bipartisan," mr bennett said.
mr bennett has drawn anger from within the right-wing camp for breaking a campaign pledge by joining forces with mr lapid – and an allegation from netanyahu that he defrauded the electorate.
mr bennett has said another election – a likely outcome if no government were formed – would have been a disaster for israel.
both mr bennett and mr lapid have said they want to bridge political divides and unite israelis under a government that will work hard for all its citizens.
their cabinet faces huge foreign, security and financial challenges: iran, a fragile ceasefire with palestinian militants in gaza, a war crimes probe by the international criminal court, and economic recovery following the coronavirus pandemic.
bennett listed as priorities reforms in education, health, cutting red tape to grow businesses and lower housing costs.
coalition leaders have said it would pass a two-year budget to help stabilise the country's finances and maintain a "status quo" on issues of religion and state.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
written by roger cohena new israeli government united in its determination to oust prime minister benjamin netanyahu, but in agreement on little else, is set to take office sunday under a right-wing leader whose eight-party coalition includes the left and, for the first time, an independent arab party.
it looks like a recipe for chronic instability.
even sunday's confidence vote in the knesset, or parliament, that would usher in the first change in israeli leadership in a dozen years is not a done deal, given the razor-thin majority of naftali bennett's coalition with its 61 seats in the 120-member chamber.
but every indication is that the votes to make bennett prime minister are locked in, absent some eleventh-hour drama.
a signed coalition agreement was formally presented to the knesset secretariat friday, the last step before a vote and the swearing-in of the new government.
survival will then become the issue.
israel's parliamentary democracy veered in a presidential direction under netanyahu.
in the end, his increasingly dismissive style had alienated too many people, especially among nominal allies on the right.
agreement to return to democratic norms may be the underlying glue of the unlikely coalition.
"the parties are disparate, but they share a commitment to reconstitute israel as a functioning liberal democracy," said shlomo avineri, a prominent political scientist.
"in recent years we saw netanyahu begin to govern in a semi-authoritarian way.
"after agreement was reached friday on the government program, bennett said: "the government will work for all the israeli public — religious, secular, ultra-orthodox, arab — without exception, as one.
we will work together, out of partnership and national responsibility, and i believe we will succeed.
"success will require constant compromise.
"they will not deal with the highly contentious issues between left and right," said tamar hermann, a professor of political science at israel's open university.
in practice, that means a likely concentration on domestic rather than foreign affairs.
israel has not had a budget in more than two years of political turmoil and repetitive elections.
bennett, a self-made tech millionaire, is determined to deliver higher standards of living and prosperity to a population weary of such paralysis.
the delicate questions to be deferred or finessed would include any renewed peace negotiations with the palestinians and any major settlement expansion in the west bank.
although bennett was once a leader of the main settler movement in the west bank and has called for the annexation of parts of the territory israel captured in 1967, he seems certain to be constrained by centrist and left-wing members of the coalition and by the pragmatism that survival demands.
establishing good relations with the biden administration, a priority, and improving relations with america's majority liberal jewish community, another significant goal, will also require centrist restraint.
"hard core people of the right, we have the evidence, become more centrist in office," hermann said.
"bennett was not prime minister when he made his pro-settlement statements.
"bennett, 49, like other prominent members of the prospective cabinet, has waited a long time to emerge from netanyahu's shadow.
yair lapid, 57, the incoming foreign minister, and gideon saar, 54, who would become justice minister, are other prominent politicians of a generation weary of being sidelined by the man many israelis had come to dub the king of israel.
they will not want to return to the shadows.
lapid, a leading architect of the coalition, would become prime minister in two years under the deal that made an alternative to netanyahu possible — another incentive for him to help make the government work.
still, it may not.
the parties, ranging from bennett's yamina party on the right to labor and meretz on the left, disagree on everything from lgbtq rights to public transportation on shabbat.
they will come under withering, constant attack from netanyahu's center-right likud party.
it is conceivable that netanyahu will be ousted from likud at some point, whereupon the right-wing members of the coalition may return to their natural alliances.
"it's not going to be easy," said avraham diskin, a political scientist at hebrew university in jerusalem.
"i really doubt that lapid will become prime minister two years from now.
"among measures the prospective government has agreed on is legislation that would set a two-term limit for prime ministers.
in effect, this would preclude netanyahu redux.
four ministries will be shut down, including the digital and strategic affairs ministries.
netanyahu had a cabinet so large and unwieldy he could argue that he had to make decisions himself.
the prospective government will also pursue legislation designed to make it more difficult to change israel's basic laws, which serve as the constitutional foundation of the country in the absence of a constitution.
netanyahu, who had been indicted on fraud and other charges, appeared to seek a curtailing of the powers of the supreme court and immunity from prosecution as prime minister.
the presence of raam, an independent arab party, in government, will impact policy to some degree.
the disparities — in living standards, education and access to land — between israeli jews and the palestinian citizens of israel, who account for about 20% of the population, has become a burning issue.
violent clashes between the communities last month were the worst in two decades.
tensions remain high.
the government looks set to allocate almost $10 billion to close gaps between the communities over the next several years, freeze demolitions of unlicensed homes in arab areas, recognize three bedouin villages in the negev desert, improve public transportation, and increase policing in disadvantaged arab communities suffering from drug dealing and violence.
the posts promised to raam to secure its support include deputy minister in the prime minister's office and chairman of the knesset committee for arab affairs.
but tensions could flare at any moment.
most immediately, a nationalist march through muslim-majority areas of jerusalem's old city has been rescheduled for tuesday.
the original jerusalem day march last month was canceled because of hamas rocket fire and clashes between the police and palestinian protesters.
the issue remains highly sensitive, charged with the same emotions that led to a short war last month, despite efforts to agree on a less sensitive route for the march.
the political adroitness of bennett and lapid will be quickly tested.
📣 the indian express is now on telegram.
click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlinesfor all the latest world news, download indian express app.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem (afp) israeli lawmakers are to vote on sunday (june 13) on a change to the coalition government of bitter ideological rivals united by their determination to banish prime minister benjamin netanyahu from power.
the crunch knesset vote will either terminate the hawkish premier's uninterrupted 12-year tenure or return israel to a stalemate likely to trigger a fifth general election since 2019. mr netanyahu, who is battling a clutch of corruption charges in an ongoing trial he dismisses as a conspiracy, has pushed israeli politics firmly to the right over the years.
on saturday night, around 2,000 protesters rallied outside the 71-year-old's official residence to celebrate what they believe will be his departure from office.
"for us, this is a big night and tomorrow will be even a bigger day.
i am almost crying.
we fought peacefully for this (mr netanyahu's departure) and the day has come," said protester ofir robinski.
a fragile eight-party alliance, ranging from the right-wing jewish nationalist yamina party to arab lawmakers, was early this month cobbled together by centrist politician yair lapid.
last friday, all coalition agreements had been signed and submitted to the knesset secretariat, the yamina party announced, a moment that party leader naftali bennett said brought "to an end two and a half years of political crisis".
but the ever-combative mr netanyahu has tried to peel off defectors that would deprive the nascent coalition of its wafer-thin legislative majority.
if the new government is confirmed, mr bennett, a former defence minister, would serve as premier for two years.
coalition architect mr lapid, who heads the yesh atid party and is a former television presenter, would then take the helm.
the anti-netanyahu bloc spans the political spectrum, including three right-wing, two centrist and two left-wing parties, along with an arab islamic conservative party.
the improbable alliance emerged two weeks after an 11-day war between israel and hamas, the islamist group that rules the palestinian enclave of gaza and following inter-communal violence in israeli cities with significant arab populations.
"we will work together, out of partnership and national responsibility and i believe we will succeed," mr bennett said last friday.
sunday's crucial knesset session is due to open at 4pm local time (9pm singapore time), with mr bennett, mr lapid and mr netanyahu all set to speak before the vote.
mr netanyahu has heaped pressure on his former right-wing allies to defect from the fledgling coalition while attacking the legitimacy of the bennett-lapid partnership.
he has accused mr bennett of "fraud" for siding with rivals and angry rallies by the premier's likud party supporters have resulted in security being bolstered for some lawmakers.
mr netanyahu's bombastic remarks as he sees his grip on power slip have drawn parallels at home and abroad to former united states president donald trump, who described his election loss last year as the result of a rigged vote.
the prime minister has called the prospective coalition "the greatest election fraud in the history" of israel.
his likud party said the accusations refer to mr bennett entering a coalition that "doesn't reflect the will of the voters".
sunday's vote arrives hot on the heels of police crackdowns on palestinian protests over the threatened eviction of families from homes in israeli-annexed east jerusalem to make way for jewish settlers, a month after similar clashes fuelled the latest war between israel and hamas.
it also comes amid right-wing anger over the postponement of a controversial jewish nationalist march.
mr netanyahu favoured finding a way to allow the so-called "march of the flags", originally scheduled to take place last thursday, to proceed as planned.
he took that position despite the original route envisaging the march unfolding close to flashpoint areas including the al-aqsa mosque compound, where clashes last month triggered the gaza conflict.
the premier's insistence saw his opponents accuse him and his allies of stoking tensions to cling onto power via a "scorched earth" campaign.
if mr netanyahu loses the premiership, he will not be able to push through changes to basic laws that could give him immunity in regard to his corruption trial.
the controversial flag march is now slated for tuesday and ongoing tensions surrounding it could represent a key initial test for any approved coalition.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
benjamin netanyahu has pushed israeli politics firmly to the right over the years (file)israeli lawmakers are to vote sunday on a "change" coalition government of bitter ideological rivals united by their determination to banish prime minister benjamin netanyahu from power.
the crunch knesset vote will either terminate the hawkish premier's uninterrupted 12-year tenure or return israel to a stalemate likely to trigger a fifth general election since 2019. netanyahu, who is battling a clutch of corruption charges in an ongoing trial he dismisses as a conspiracy, has pushed israeli politics firmly to the right over the years.
on saturday night, around 2,000 protesters rallied outside the 71-year-old's official residence to celebrate what they believe will be his departure from office.
"for us, this is a big night and tomorrow will be even a bigger day.
i am almost crying.
we fought peacefully for this (netanyahu's departure) and the day has come," said protester ofir robinski.
a fragile eight-party alliance, ranging from the right-wing jewish nationalist yamina party to arab lawmakers, was early this month cobbled together by centrist politician yair lapid.
on friday, all coalition agreements had been signed and submitted to the knesset secretariat, yamina announced, a moment party leader naftali bennett said brought "to an end two and a half years of political crisis".
but the ever-combative netanyahu has tried to peel off defectors that would deprive the nascent coalition of its wafer thin legislative majority.
'peaceful transition'if the new government is confirmed, bennett, a former defence minister, would serve as premier for two years.
coalition architect lapid, who heads the yesh atid party and is a former television presenter, would then take the helm.
the anti-netanyahu bloc spans the political spectrum, including three right-wing, two centrist and two left-wing parties, along with an arab islamic conservative party.
the improbable alliance emerged two weeks after an 11-day war between israel and hamas, the islamist group that rules the palestinian enclave of gaza and following inter-communal violence in israeli cities with significant arab populations.
"we will work together, out of partnership and national responsibility -- and i believe we will succeed," bennett said friday.
sunday's crucial knesset session is due to open at 4:00 pm local time (1300 gmt), with bennett, lapid and netanyahu all set to speak before the vote.
netanyahu has heaped pressure on his former right-wing allies to defect from the fledgling coalition while attacking the legitimacy of the bennett-lapid partnership.
he has accused bennett of "fraud" for siding with rivals, and angry rallies by the premier's likud party supporters have resulted in security being bolstered for some lawmakers.
netanyahu's bombastic remarks as he sees his grip on power slip have drawn parallels at home and abroad to former us president donald trump, who described his election loss last year as the result of a rigged vote.
the prime minister has called the prospective coalition "the greatest election fraud in the history" of israel.
his likud party said the accusations refer to bennett entering a coalition that "doesn't reflect the will of the voters".
'scorched earth'sunday's vote arrives hot on the heels of police crackdowns on palestinian protests over the threatened eviction of families from homes in israeli-annexed east jerusalem to make way for jewish settlers, a month after similar clashes fuelled the latest war between israel and hamas.
it also comes amid right-wing anger over the postponement of a controversial jewish nationalist march.
netanyahu favoured finding a way to allow the so-called "march of the flags", originally scheduled to take place last thursday, to proceed as planned.
he took that position despite the original route envisaging the march unfolding close to flashpoint areas including the al-aqsa mosque compound, where clashes last month triggered the gaza conflict.
the premier's insistence saw his opponents accuse him and his allies of stoking tensions to cling onto power via a "scorched-earth" campaign.
if netanyahu loses the premiership, he will not be able to push through changes to basic laws that could give him immunity in regard to his corruption trial.
the controversial flag march is now slated for tuesday and ongoing tensions surrounding it could represent a key initial test for any approved coalition.
(except for the headline, this story has not been edited by ndtv staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
)track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
israel's parliament is expected to approve the formation of a new government later on sunday, ending 12 years of rule by pm benjamin netanyahu.
the prospective government an unprecedented coalition of parties has a razor-thin majority of one seat.
it would also end more than two years of political paralysis in which three elections resulted in stalemate.
right-wing nationalist naftali bennett is poised to become pm in a power-sharing deal with a centrist leader.
under the coalition agreement, mr bennett, who heads the yamina party, will hold office until september 2023, when he will hand over to yair lapid, leader of yesh atid, for a further two years.
mr netanyahu israel's longest-serving leader, who has dominated its political landscape for years would remain head of the right-wing likud party and become leader of the opposition.
he has railed against the likely new government, calling it a "dangerous coalition of fraud and surrender" and has vowed to "overthrow it very quickly".
meanwhile, his trial on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust allegations he denies continues.
mr netanyahu has served a record-breaking five terms, first from 1996 to 1999, then continuously from 2009 to 2021. he called an election in april 2019 but failed to win enough support to form a new coalition government.
two more elections followed, each of which ended inconclusively.
the third election resulted in a government of national unity where mr netanyahu agreed to share power with the then-opposition leader benny gantz.
but the arrangement collapsed in december, triggering a fourth election.
although likud emerged as the largest party in the 120-seat parliament, mr netanyahu was again unable to form a governing coalition and the task was handed to mr lapid, whose party had emerged as the second largest.
opposition to mr netanyahu staying in power had grown, not just among the left and centre but also among right-wing parties that are ordinarily ideologically aligned to likud, including yamina.
although yamina came joint fifth in the election with only seven seats, its support was critical if any potential coalition government was to have a majority in parliament.
after weeks of negotiations, mr lapid brought yamina on board as part of a constellation of parties whose only common goal was to remove mr netanyahu from office.
the agreement involving eight factions with the 61 seats required for a majority was signed on 2 june, just half an hour before a deadline was due to expire, effectively sealing mr netanyahu's fate.
in appearance, mr bennett's government would be unlike any which has preceded it in israel's 73-year history.
the alliance contains parties which have vast ideological differences, and perhaps most significantly includes the first independent arab party to be part of a potential ruling coalition, raam.
it is also expected to have a record number of eight female ministers.
the inclusion of raam and left-wing non-arab israeli parties means there could be friction on issues such as israeli policies towards palestinians yamina and another right-wing party, new hope, are staunch supporters of jewish settlement in the israeli-occupied west bank, for instance.
there could also be difficulties over social policies while some parties want to advance gay rights, such as recognising same sex marriages, raam, an islamist party, is against this.
in addition, some parties want to relax religious restrictions more extensively than yamina a national-religious party will likely allow.
mr bennett has indicated his government would focus on areas where agreement was possible, like economic issues or the coronavirus pandemic, while avoiding more contentious matters.
"nobody will have to give up their ideology," he recently said, "but all will have to postpone the realisation of some of their dreams.
.
.
we'll focus on what can be achieved, rather than arguing about what cannot. "
netanyahu seeks block on deal to oust himthe coalition that could end 'king' bibi's 12-year reignthe rise of naftali bennett, israel's likely pmnetanyahu: commando turned pmattenborough: g7 faces historic climate decisionssir david warns world leaders that humans may be "on the verge of destabilising the entire planet".
denmark's eriksen 'awake' after collapsing in euro 2020 gamenetanyahu faces end of rule in new government vote'it hit the valley floor like 15 atomic bombs''i miss airline meals so much i make them at home'the risquã© business of selling underwear in pakistannuts, wine and juice the many joys of cashewsfrom air force one to beast biden's travel kitthe new dutch wellness trend taking the world by stormthe year in the life of a viral delhi eatery ownerwhen can you trust statistics?unearthing joe biden's unsung english rootslyrics quizhave you been getting these songs wrong?feeling hotwhat happens to your body in extreme heat?biden gifts johnson custom-made bike at g7 summit1attenborough: g7 faces historic climate decisions2eriksen 'awake' after collapsing3disruption to shipping could last until christmas4netanyahu faces end of rule in new government vote5swiss to vote in pesticide ban referendum6bidder pays $28m for space trip with amazon boss7from air force one to beast biden's travel kit8e3 2021 kicks off with avatar and mario reveals9the risquã© business of selling underwear in pakistan10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
source: the sun dailykuala lumpur, malaysia — the united malays national organisation (umno) is opposed to any extension of the current state of emergency in malaysia, says party president ahmad zahid hamidi after an audience with king al-sultan abdullah on friday (11 june).
ahmad zahid told reporters outside the national palace here today that he had mooted the prospect during his hour-long audience with sultan abdullah "to ensure the country's democratic system is defended".
"it was obvious that even without the emergency, the government could previously handle matters related to fighting the covid-19 pandemic," he added.
while calling for an end to the emergency, the bagan datuk member of parliament (mp) also proposed the resumption of parliament sittings.
"umno believes that parliament is an important official platform to voice the people's concerns (on matters such) such as loan moratoriums, i-sinar and i-lestari 2.
0 and other forms of assistance for everyone," he said.
ahmad zahid is one of several politicians who have openly spoken up against the state of emergency and the suspension of parliament, the latter of which is enabled by the former.
parti keadilan rakyat president anwar ibrahim in january filed a suit against muhyiddin and the federal government, on the grounds that the latter had allegedly advised the nation's king to suspend parliament sittings during the state of emergency.
malay mail reported that in a separate statement filed in court, anwar had argued that the suspension of parliament under emergency powers blocks parliament's freedom to ensure transparent debates, government accountability, and proper checks and balances on the executive branch of the government in making and enacting laws during the pandemic.
anwar was also one of the politicians who have met with the king this week.
he was granted an audience with sultan abdullah with parti amanah negara president mohamad sabu and democratic action party (dap) secretary-general lim guan eng — all component parties of the pakatan harapan coalition.
former prime minister mahathir mohamad, whose parti pejuang tanah air political party has yet to be registered, also had a meeting with the king, during which he proposed the setting up of a national operations council (mageran) in the present circumstances.
mageran was set up after the 13 may racial riots in 1969 to restore the rule of law and order in the country.
several political leaders have since challenged dr mahathir's proposal to establish mageran.
ahmad zahid told reporters that the idea of mageran should have been brought forth at the start of the emergency period.
he added that he did not discuss the mageran issue with the king.
"i feel it is something normal outside the scope of the existing situation because the emergency is supposed to cover it but it has been used to achieve other purposes," said ahmad zahid.
in a joint statement on friday, anwar, mohamad sabu, and lim said that their objection is grounded in their belief that for a parliamentary democracy to truly function, the emergency must be lifted and parliament must be allowed to reconvene.
"the solution to the people's problems in relation to covid-19, the economy and even politics requires a democracy that functions well, and the best avenue to hear out their grievances and to find solutions to them is parliament," they said.
klang mp charles santiago also called for the end of the emergency and for parliament sittings to resume via both physical and virtual means.
in a tweet on friday, the dap politician wrote: "don't make a mockery of parliamentary democracy.
end emergency, reconvene parliament via physical & virtual sessions.
"santiago also expressed his objection against mageran in the same tweet, saying: "no to noc.
"don't make a mockery of parliamentary democracy.
end emergency, reconvene parliament via physical & virtual sessions.
no to noc.
— charles santiago (@mpklang) june 11, 2021prime minister muhyiddin yassin in march defended the emergency proclamation, stating that it is not a tool for him to cling on to his position but a pre-emptive move in managing the covid-19 situation in the country.
the emergency would be lifted earlier than its scheduled end on 1 august if the government is able to control the pandemic situation in the country, he added.
"if the independent special committee says [the emergency] can be put to an end earlier, i will just follow that.
we also do not want to be under restriction by such regulations forever," said muhyiddin.
sultan abdullah is slated to discuss the emergency and the covid-19 situation with eight other rulers in a special conference next wednesday (16 june).
the king's succession of physical meetings with political leaders this week is set to end on friday.
he is slated to have a virtual meeting with sarawak's ruling party gabungan parti sarawak on monday.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur the president of umno the biggest party in malaysia's ruling perikatan nasional (pn) government has proposed the ongoing state of emergency come to an end in august and for parliament to reconvene, in his audience with the king on friday (june 11).
"this is to ensure the country's democratic system is defended," datuk seri ahmad zahid hamidi told reporters following an hour-long meeting with sultan abdullah ahmad shah.
"it's obvious that the government in the past could deal with covid-19 issues without declaring an emergency," mr ahmad zahid said.
the king has been meeting political party leaders at the national palace since wednesday to discuss the pandemic and the government's handling of it.
mr zahid's stance came a day after former prime minister mahathir mohamad, during his own meeting with the king, proposed the setting up of a national operations council (noc) under the state of emergency.
he offered to lead the council.
dr mahathir said the noc, which governed the nation for two years after the may 13, 1969 race riots, allowed malaysia's second prime minister, tun abdul razak hussein, to "solve political problems at the time" by bringing in opposition parties to form a wider barisan nasional ruling coalition that had a stronger majority.
the king is meeting all political party leaders to hear their views about the covid-19 crisis in the country and the state of emergency that was imposed in january, with his consent, to allow the government to curb the spread of the pandemic.
it is due to end in august.
the crisis has worsened during the emergency period, with the country imposing its third lockdown which was due to end on june 14.  the government on friday announced that this would be extended by another two weeks to june 28 .
the king is also meeting the leaders of the malaysian indian congress, which is also part of the pn government, and parti bersatu sabah.
besides tun mahathir, he has met prime minister muhyiddin yassin, opposition leader anwar ibrahim, who is also head of parti keadilan rakyat, as well as other opposition leaders such as the democratic action party's mr lim guan eng and amanah's mr mohamad sabu.
friday is the final day for the face-to-face audience granted to political leaders, and an online meeting has been scheduled with sarawak's ruling party gabungan parti sarawak on monday.
the king will be meeting the country's eight other rulers in a special conference on june 16 to discuss the emergency and covid-19 crisis.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur: united malays national organisation (umno) has pleaded with the king to not extend malaysia's state of emergency beyond aug 1, its president ahmad zahid hamidi said after an audience with the ruler on friday (jun 11).
the party also wanted the parliament to reconvene again to ensure that the country's "democratic system can be defended", ahmad zahid told journalists outside the palace.
umno's stance echoed that of leader of the opposition anwar ibrahim, who called for the state of emergency to end as scheduled in his meeting with king al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah.
al-sultan abdullah has been summoning political party leaders to the palace for meetings this week.
he first met with prime minister muhyiddin yassin for a pre-cabinet meeting, and then granted audiences to mr anwar, parti amanah negara president mohamad sabu and democratic action party secretary-general lim guan eng on wednesday.
on thursday, the king had audiences with leaders of parti islam se-malaysia, malaysian chinese associatio, parti warisan sabah, as well as former prime minister mahathir mohamad, who is heading the yet-to-be-registered parti pejuang tanah air.
those who received a friday slot included mic president s.  a.  vigneswaran and parti bersatu sabah president maximus johnity ongkili, while leaders from sarawak were scheduled to have a virtual audience with the king on monday.
al-sultan abdullah had earlier declared a nationwide state of emergency back in january to curb the spread of covid-19.
parliament, state legislative assemblies and elections are suspended, while economic activities are allowed to continue.
malaysia's covid-19 numbers have continued to rise since january, and as of friday, total caseload stood at 646,411 cases, with 79,848 active cases and 3,684 deaths.
with the parliamentary suspension, the legitimacy of mr muhyiddin's perikatan nasional government formed following a power tussle in february and march last year cannot be challenged in the august house.
mr muhyiddin had said he would advise the king to dissolve the parliament once the pandemic is under control.
speaking to journalists on friday, ahmad zahid said the damage of a prolonged state of emergency would be "too great for the country".
"and it was obvious that even without the emergency, the government could previously handle matters related to fighting the covid-19 pandemic," he said.
ahmad zahid, who is bagan datuk mp, added that parliament meetings would ensure that the government administration is held accountable through checks and balances.
"umno is of the opinion that the parliament is an important official platform to voice the people's grouses, such as moratorium, increasing price of goods, i-sinar and i-lestari 2.
0 and other assistance for everyone," he said, referring to the retirement fund withdrawal programmes.
on dr mahathir's proposal to set up a national operations council to take over the country's administration, ahmad zahid said this was not discussed in his meeting with the king.
the council, better known by its malay abbreviation mageran, was an emergency administrative body established to restore the rule of law in malaysia after the may 13 racial riots in 1969. the opposition alliance pakatan harapan has rejected the proposal on friday, and reiterated its stance that the state of emergency should end immediately and the parliament should reconvene.
meanwhile, the palace said the king is due to meet with the other malay rulers next wednesday for a special discussion on the efforts to fight covid-19 and their implementation during the state of emergency.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
