'Stuffing them in a pail might cause them to die': Marine life enthusiasts warn after groups seen collecting sea creatures at Changi Beach, Singapore News.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the national parks board (nparks) said on tuesday (june 15) that it will be taking extra steps to prevent beachgoers from manhandling marine creatures in intertidal areas, following an influx of people to changi beach during low tide last weekend.
these include putting up more signs and stepping up patrols by nparks staff, volunteers and nature groups, said mr ryan lee, group director of nparks' national biodiversity centre, in response to media queries.
"we will raise awareness on the detrimental effects of touching, collecting or trampling on marine wildlife in their natural habitats," he added.
touching wildlife causes unnecessary stress to these creatures.
soft-bodied organisms may also be vulnerable to injury from being poked and prodded.
crowds armed with pails, tongs and shovels were seen flocking to the intertidal areas of changi beach at low tide on sunday (june 13).
they were also seen gathering in groups of more than two which had been the covid-19 safe management requirement then.
but they were not there to pick up rubbish.
instead, posts circulating on social media showed families poking and digging up marine creatures such as anemones, crabs and jellyfish and placing them in buckets.
it was not immediately clear from the photographs and videos if the creatures were being harvested as seafood.
animals not typically consumed, such as sea anemones, were also seen in the buckets.
mr lee said nparks was concerned by the large number of visitors over the weekend to the intertidal area in changi beach, and the collection of shellfish and other invertebrates.
however, other than certain rare species, invertebrates marine and land creatures without backbones, including shellfish and crabs are not protected under the wildlife act.
the act, which came into effect in 2020, is meant to extend greater protection to singapore's native wildlife.
the straits times understands that conservationists had, during consultations on the scope of the law, raised the need to include such creatures under the wildlife act.
queried on this, nparks told st that other than certain rare species, it would be challenging for the act to cover all invertebrates as this would include common pests, such as ants and cockroaches.
as for the parks and trees act another piece of legislation governing the use of singapore's nature areas mr lee said the intertidal area of changi beach is not covered under it.
st understands that while nparks manages changi beach park, the beaches are not under its purview.
under the parks and trees act, wildlife, including invertebrates, cannot be collected in singapore's nature reserves and parks, including sisters' islands marine park, sungei buloh wetland reserve, labrador nature reserve's rocky shore and chek jawa wetlands.
mr lee said singapore's parks are shared spaces for all to enjoy.
he added: "we request park visitors to be socially responsible and to keep our green spaces safe for everyone.
"national university of singapore marine biologist neo mei lin, who studies giant clams – invertebrates threatened with extinction in singapore and covered under the wildlife act – said nparks' proposed efforts are welcome and greatly needed, especially for seashores easily accessible to the public.
but she added: "i still firmly believe that we need to include underappreciated invertebrates under the act, even if this is done in a phased manner of first including the more endangered ones.
otherwise, the law gives the impression that it's okay to mistreat these creatures, while at the same time criminalising those who pluck plants in our public parks.
"last weekend's incident was the latest in a string of cases involving marine life affected by human recreational activities in singapore.
in may, an eagle ray was reeled in at east coast park and dragged to shore, thrashing all the way.
it followed another incident earlier in may involving a critically endangered hawksbill turtle, found dead within a drift net in the waters off pulau hantu, one of singapore's southern islands.
another drift net found draped over corals off lazarus island was later retrieved by marine biologists from the national university of singapore.
the net had "whipped" the corals leaving marks on their soft tissue and also ensnared crabs, one of which had been found alive but without four of its legs.
drift nets are kept vertical by floats at the top and weights at the bottom, and they trap everything in their path.
while the fisheries act bars the use of trawl nets, poison or explosives to catch fish, it is not clear if drift nets are allowed.
st has reached out to the singapore food agency for comment.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: the national parks board (nparks) is "concerned" by the large number of visitors over the weekend to the intertidal area at changi beach, and the collection of shellfish and other invertebrates, it said in a statement to cna on wednesday (jun 15).
a post shared in the singapore wildlife sightings facebook group on sunday showed these beach visitors digging up sea creatures during an intertidal walk.
the visitors were also seen collecting these creatures, including crabs, fish and anemone, in a pail.
an intertidal zone is the coastal area that is submerged at high tide, but exposed at low tide.
"regarding the collection of shellfish, other than certain rare species, invertebrates are currently not protected under the wildlife act," said ryan lee, group director of the national biodiversity centre at the national parks board, in response to cna's queries.
imposing restrictions on all invertebrates would also mean taking into account common pests like cockroaches.
"under the parks and trees act, however, flora and fauna, including invertebrates, cannot be collected in our nature reserves and parks, and these include sisters' islands marine park, sungei buloh wetland reserve, labrador nature reserve's rocky shore and chek jawa wetlands," added mr lee.
"offences, including the picking of shellfish, carry fines of up to $5,000 in nparks-managed parks, and up to $50,000 in nature reserves.
"the parks and trees act and its regulations only extend to marine and foreshore areas that are managed or maintained by nparks.
while the act does not include the intertidal area in changi beach, mr lee said nparks is "committed to encouraging community stewardship" of singapore's natural habitats and biodiversity.
"as such, nparks will intensify our outreach efforts to educate the public to care for the sensitive marine life in intertidal areas," he said.
"more signage will be put up, and we will step up patrols by our staff and stakeholders including nature groups and other volunteers.
we will raise awareness on the detrimental effects of touching, collecting or trampling on marine wildlife in their natural habitats.
"he also encouraged the public to help conserve our marine habitats by participating in nparks' intertidal watch citizen science programme.
should the public wish to visit intertidal zones, mr lee noted that they should follow safe management measures (smms) in line with the latest advisory for phase 3 (heightened alert).
"the unusually large number of visitors was probably because the low day tides coincided with the school break over the weekend," he said.
"the public can refer to the nparks website for the latest advisories for gardens, parks and nature reserves in response to the covid-19 situation.
"in response to queries on what the public should observe on intertidal walks, kua kay yaw, chairman of the marine conservation group at nature society (singapore), told cna that "the best thing to do is go on intertidal walks with a nature guide".
"intertidal walks are definitely a healthy and enjoyable activity, and a good way for people to appreciate nature.
removal of any wildlife would deprive the next person from seeing them.
take photos as souvenirs instead," said mr kua.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
[update june 16] nparks said on tuesday (june 16) that it will take steps to prevent manhandling of marine animals in intertidal areas.
staff, volunteers and nature groups will help put up more signs and increase patrols in these places, ryan lee, group director of nparks' national biodiversity centre told local media.
in addition, he said nparks will "raise awareness on the detrimental effects of touching, collecting or trampling on marine wildlife in their natural habitats".
a number of marine groups, enthusiasts and netizens were shocked by scenes of people collecting intertidal wildlife in a viral social media post.
daphne ting took to facebook on sunday (june 13) describing the situation at changi beach as "horrible".
"what i saw today were groups and groups of people armed with shovels, tongs and pails, happily collecting crabs, fish, shells, sea cucumbers, eels, jellyfish and even sea anemone," she said.
these creatures can be seen collected by these beachgoers and kept in cramped conditions in pails.
comments were mostly critical of the situation and a handful called on the authorities to take action.
one commenter wrote: "there should be.
.
.
a ban of bringing tools like shovel and pails.
"marine life harvesting is a common sight and the people who collect such wildlife are often unaware of how these animals behave, according to experts in a cna report.
dennis chan, founder of untamed paths, an organisation that sheds light on unusual wildlife here, told the publication: "if you're going to stuff them into a pail, the oxygen level depletes rapidly and might cause them to die.
"also read: 'let it go': video of man reeling in endangered eagle ray at east coast park sparks concern"putting these creatures in buckets also increases the temperature of water, causing more distress," the 27-year-old added.
jianlin liu, who has conducted intertidal surveys in bali, told cna that starfish, anemones and soft invertebrates like marine flatworm and nudibranches are delicate animals that can be easily injured or killed if forcefully moved and taken out of the water.
in an effort to educate against such incidents and improve the public's understanding of marine life conservation, the national parks board runs the intertidal watch, where volunteers conduct scientific surveys at intertidal areas to aid conservation.
responding to the changi beach incident, mp for nee soon grc louis ng took to instagram on june 14 to remind the public to leave the animals alone.
"take nothing but pictures, leave nothing but footprints, kill nothing but time," he said.
similarly, young nautilus, a company providing science-based learning journeys to students said in a facebook post: "do help to advise against wildlife harvesting if you are at the intertidal zones and seeing animals being dabao-ed home!"
alexanderkt@asiaone.
com
singapore: a facebook post about the treatment of marine creatures by changi beach visitors recently has got wildlife enthusiasts riled up.
the post was shared in the singapore wildlife sightings facebook group by one of its members, ms daphne ting, who witnessed the happenings at changi beach on sunday (jun 13) morning while she was on an intertidal walk.
an intertidal walk is one that traverses the coastal area at the edge of land and sea that is submerged at high tide, but dry and exposed to air during low tide.
in the post, ms ting noted groups of beach goers, armed with shovels, tongs and pails, were digging up holes, "searching for these marine creatures and wrecking the entire shore".
among the creatures they collected were crabs, fish, shells, sea cucumbers, eels, jellyfish and sea anemone, ms ting said in her post.
"there were other beach goers who were very angry at this too.
but even after telling these people not to collect the marine life, they just walked away and continued collecting more," the 28-year-old wrote.
speaking to cna over the phone, ms ting added that she'd shared her post hoping someone would shed light on what can be done, as this was the first time she'd seen people collecting marine creatures "on a mass scale".
"when my boyfriend and i saw them collecting the creatures in the pail, we saw the way they handled the tongs.
they'd pick up soft creatures in a very rough manner.
if you were there, you'd also feel horrified at the way they handled the creatures," she told cna.
why the uproarsuch a sight is, unfortunately, common, according to marine biodiversity enthusiasts who spoke to cna.
"it's not that people aren't aware of these creatures, but they're unaware of how the creatures behave.
they don't know that putting them into buckets with other creatures can cause stress or harm to them.
if you're going to stuff them into a pail, the oxygen level depletes rapidly and might cause them to die," said dennis chan, 27. the founder of the untamed paths, an organisation that attempts to raise awareness of unconventional biodiversity in singapore, said that "putting these creatures in buckets also increases the temperature of water, causing more distress".
some marine creatures that suffer in this way include starfish and anemone.
"starfish will detach their arms when stressed; anemones will die when forcefully uprooted and taken out of the water.
like most marine life, starfish are also stressed by natural elements like the influx of freshwater or rain.
they become pale and die off slowly.
so imagine human impact on these delicate creatures," said mr jianlin liu, who has been going on intertidal walks at least thrice a month for nine years.
"prying soft invertebrates like marine flatworms and nudibranchs off rocks can also severely hurt or kill the animal.
"the 31-year-old, who has flown to bali twice a year for the last five years to do intertidal surveys, reasoned that such behaviour usually stems from a "lack of education", an "others do, so i follow" mentality and being able to see the creatures clearer in the pail.
"but other reasons include to harvest and consume marine life, sell the animals for money to aquariums or to collect for one's personal aquarium," he added.
aside from harming the creatures, mr liu added that the behaviour mentioned in the facebook post also destroys the habitat.
"no matter how gentle we are on the shores, there will be some impact.
with the huge crowd, a lot of marine life residing, breeding and feeding in the sand or seagrass will be killed due to excessive trampling," he said.
mr liu added that wearing inappropriate attire, like being barefoot or walking in slippers, during intertidal walks might also harm the individual, as many marine life "defend themselves with venom that can be fatal to humans".
"while our shores are beautiful, there are known dangers around.
we have past incidents of singaporeans stepping on the venomous stonefish and the pain is extreme," he said.
what can be doneeven though collecting marine creatures during intertidal walks is harmful, it seems that regulation around marine biodiversity has many "grey areas", said ms ting.
"but just because it might be legal doesn't mean it's ethical," she said.
as such, whenever mr chan and his team at the untamed paths guide participants during intertidal walks for 10 to 15 days a month, he cannot tell beach goers who pick up marine creatures that their actions are against the law.
"instead what we can do is show people how they can experience an intertidal zone and show respect to the creatures they encounter," he said.
"when you go to nature reserves, you aren't going to catch a frog.
that rule should apply here too.
"mr chan's advice to people who wish to go on intertidal walks is to leave their pails and tongs at home.
"just go to these zones and experience it with your phone or camera.
but leave those other items at home so you're not encouraged to pick things up.
there's no need to," he said.
cna contacted the national parks board (nparks) for a statement.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: marine biologists are investigating a mystery skin disease afflicting whitetip reef sharks in malaysia, with some early reports suggesting rising sea temperatures could be to blame.
named for the distinctive white tips on their fins, whitetip reef sharks are typically found resting in schools around reefs in the day and are a popular attraction for divers.
they become active at night to hunt for small fish and other animals.
pictures of one of the sharks with what appeared to be spots and lesions on its head went viral on social media in april after being taken by an underwater photographer off sabah state on borneo island.
soon after, divers at sipadan island, a famed diving destination nearby, and a team of experts from the state's university and government and conservation groups began seeing the skin disease in every group of sharks they encountered.
attempting to diagnose what could be causing the illness, the team found the sea surface temperature at sipadan had risen to 29.
5 degrees celsius in may, a degree higher than in 1985.
"we can almost certainly pin the warming ocean as having a role in what we are seeing with the sickly sharks in sipadan," said davies austin spiji, a senior marine biologist with non-profit conservation group reef guardian, ruling out human factors as sipadan is a marine protected area where fishing is strictly prohibited, and there are no settlements or industries nearby.
the reported sightings coincide with reports of coral bleaching in the area, according to mohamed shariff mohamed din, a professor in aquatic veterinary studies with universiti putra malaysia.
"we cannot ignore that changes are happening there due to higher temperatures," mohamed shariff said.
a full scientific study is yet to be done, however.
in may, the research team tried but failed to capture some of the sharks to secure samples for testing, said mabel manjaji-matsumoto, a senior lecturer with the borneo marine research institute of universiti malaysia sabah.
"if we can get shark specimens, we will surely at least be able to find out the pathogenic cause of the lesions," manjaji-matsumoto said, adding that the team plans to make another attempt in july.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: marine biologists are investigating a mystery skin disease afflicting whitetip reef sharks in malaysia, with some early reports suggesting rising sea temperatures could be to blame.
named for the distinctive white tips on their fins, whitetip reef sharks are typically found resting in schools around reefs in the day and are a popular attraction for divers.
they become active at night to hunt for small fish and other animals.
pictures of one of the sharks with what appeared to be spots and lesions on its head went viral on social media in april after being taken by an underwater photographer off sabah state on borneo island.
soon after, divers at sipadan island, a famed diving destination nearby, and a team of experts from the state's university and government and conservation groups began seeing the skin disease in every group of sharks they encountered.
attempting to diagnose what could be causing the illness, the team found the sea surface temperature at sipadan had risen to 29.
5 degrees celsius in may, a degree higher than in 1985.
"we can almost certainly pin the warming ocean as having a role in what we are seeing with the sickly sharks in sipadan," said davies austin spiji, a senior marine biologist with non-profit conservation group reef guardian, ruling out human factors as sipadan is a marine protected area where fishing is strictly prohibited, and there are no settlements or industries nearby.
the reported sightings coincide with reports of coral bleaching in the area, according to mohamed shariff mohamed din, a professor in aquatic veterinary studies with universiti putra malaysia.
"we cannot ignore that changes are happening there due to higher temperatures," mohamed shariff said.
a full scientific study is yet to be done, however.
in may, the research team tried but failed to capture some of the sharks to secure samples for testing, said mabel manjaji-matsumoto, a senior lecturer with the borneo marine research institute of universiti malaysia sabah.
"if we can get shark specimens, we will surely at least be able to find out the pathogenic cause of the lesions," manjaji-matsumoto said, adding that the team plans to make another attempt in july.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
