Euro 2020: Netherlands 3-2 Ukraine full match reaction & quotes: Defiant De Boer vows second-half struggles 'will not happen again'.
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountgareth southgate says "phenomenal" raheem sterling has set the tone for england's euro 2020 campaign after the manchester city forward silenced his doubters in sunday's 1-0 victory against croatia.
southgate's side made a positive start to their bid to win the european championship thanks to sterling's second-half strike at wembley.
with england labouring to break down resolute croatia, it was sterling who latched onto kalvin phillips' exquisite pass to fire home from 10 yards.
sterling's first goal in a major tournament after a series of flops on the biggest international stages could not have come at a more vital moment.
failure to win their group d opener, which looked a distinct possibility until sterling scored, would have been a setback for england.
sterling would also have endured fresh questions about his form if england had flopped after his lacklustre end to the season with city.
when sterling was named in southgate's starting line-up, there were some who claimed it was a mistake to pick him instead of jack grealish.
the critics pointed to sterling's tame display in city's champions league final defeat against chelsea and his long spells on the bench for the premier league champions.
but southgate is a firm believer in sterling's qualities and his faith was rewarded as the 26-year-old tore into croatia to prove his point.
ignoring the sweltering temperatures, sterling set the tempo in england's high-energy opening, then came to the rescue when they were running out of ideas after the interval.
"he's been a reliable performer for us for a long period of time," southgate said.
"we can't have all the burden of scoring on harry kane's shoulders.
we need the wide players to chip in.
"i'm delighted for him as he went quite a few tournament matches without scoring before today.
he set the tone with his pass to phil (foden) early on today.
"his work without the ball was phenomenal, positionally and his desire to track.
"'block the noise out' the 'football's coming home' anthem belted out by england's fans during the post-match lap of honour carried extra meaning for sterling.
linked with a move away from city after scoring once in his last 16 appearances at the end of this season, sterling found comfort in his return to north london, where he grew up just a few miles from wembley.
"it's a great feeling for me playing at wembley, not far from where i grew up as a young boy and seeing the stadium being built," sterling said.
"there are a lot of different reasons i haven't scored for my club and that's totally irrelevant now.
"i'm here with england, i'm enjoying my football and that's the most important thing.
"i just tried to focus and come into this tournament with a clear head.
i know what i can bring to the team and it's as simple as that.
"sterling won the man of the match award, but leeds midfielder phillips pushed him close.
phillips was a surprise choice by southgate, but the 25-year-old seized his chance with a stylish performance.
deployed by leeds in a midfield holding role, southgate urged phillips to have a more forward-thinking mindset and he responded with the dynamic burst that set up sterling's winner.
"kalvin is a fabulous boy to work with, so unassuming.
his contribution to the goal summed his day up," southgate said.
"he's technically good and we knew the athleticism in midfield was going to be important.
"all the attributes are there.
high performance, low maintenance.
we like that a lot.
"next up is friday's grudge match against scotland and southgate warned his players not to rest on their laurels.
"you can get a bit of a glow from the win and go a bit soft," southgate said.
"we've got to make sure we're ready for what is going to be an incredible game against scotland.
"© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
brought to you by  heinekenonce you have subscribed we will use the email you provided to send you the newsletter.
you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the newsletter email.
everyone in football and beyond is praying that christian eriksen will make a full recovery from his traumatic collapse during denmark's euro 2020 clash with finland on saturday night.
there is optimism surrounding eriksen's condition now that he is in the hands of medical officials in copenhagen having regained conscious before being stretched off the parken stadium pitch.
the danish fa confirmed in an official statement on sunday that the former tottenham hotspur midfield was 'stable' and that messages of support will be passed on to him and his loved ones.
it read: "this morning we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination.
"the team and staff of the national team has received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident.
"we would like to thank everyone for the heartfelt greetings to christian eriksen from fans, players, the royal families from both denmark and england, international associations, clubs etc.
"we encourage everyone to send their greetings to the danish fa, where we will make sure they are all passed on to christian and his family.
"seeing such a fit and healthy 29-year-old suffering such a harrowing medical incident during an athletic performance has undoubtedly been a traumatic and affecting moment for everyone involved.
and if any good can come from the upsetting scenes that transpired in the danish capital then it's the hope of greater awareness surrounding cardiological health.
euro 2020: news, groups, fixtures, dates, tickets, odds and everything you need to knowafter all, there's good reason to think that simon kjær's proficiency in cpr and knowledge of the recovery position was integral in saving eriksen's life.
and that's exactly why a viral twitter thread by cardiologist sadi raza is so important, highlighting some of the potential details around eriksen's condition and explaining what we can all do if forbid any such incident were ever to happen around us.
it makes for an educational and sobering read, so be sure to join the thousands of twitter users who have already given it their attention by checking out the full thread down below:life really is fragile and it is so important that we all have a basic understanding of first aid in the unlikely scenario that our assistance might be required.
besides, the conduct of the medical team as well as both the danish and finnish squads was nothing short of heroic in what will endure as one of football's most traumatic ever incidents.
it's incredibly positive to hear that eriksen is now on the mend and no doubt he would be greatly buoyed by the idea of what happened to him raising awareness about heart health and first aid.
if just one person is more educated on cpr because of saturday night's events, then the legacy of eriksen's collapse could well be a life-saving one.
get well soon, christian.
the world's ninth-fastest journalist.
interviewed sir mo farah, dina asher-smith, eliud kipchoge and katarina johnson-thompson.
author of such literary classics as 'ranking every premier league manager by how good they'd be on a night out'.
© 2021 sports new media limited.
all rights reserved.
spain set several possession records on monday against sweden although la roja couldn't turn all of that possession into the goal needed to secure all three points.
sweden were able to keep spain at bay to earn a 0-0 draw on monday as luis enrique's side settled for just one point on a disappointing day.
however, spain toppled some of their own records against the swedes, who were content to let spain have their trademark possession for all 90 minutes.
by the final whistle, spain had amassed 85 per cent possession against a bunkered-in sweden as la roja were always in complete control.
that 85 per cent number makes spain the first-ever team to hit that benchmark at the euros side since opta began collecting data in 1980. along the way, spain completed 419 passes in the first half, the highest figure in the opening 45 minutes of a european championship game.
they also completed 303 passes in the opposing half in the first half, the most by any team at the euros, while sweden made just 38 passes in the spain half, the fewest by any team at the euros.
when all was said and done, spain ended up finishing with a record total of 917 passes.
with that, spain broke their own euros mark, which was coincidentally set nine years ago to the day.
on that day, spain completed 859 passes against ireland, with the legendary xavi responsible for 136 of them.
seville, spain:     sweden were out-passed by a factor of over five to one against spain in their opening euro 2020 group e match but they made no apologies for shutting down the spaniards in a dull 0-0 draw on monday.
spain dominated possession and played a massive 953 passes, according to uefa statistics, compared with sweden's 178, yet their stifling tactics and superb goalkeeping from robin olsen earned them a point.
"for us, it makes no difference if they have that many passes, if they have the ball outside us and can't find a way in, it makes no difference.
in football, it's about scoring goals, so for me there's no problem," sweden defender victor lindelof told reporters.
"i think they (the spaniards) got a bit frustrated.
they had a lot of the ball and some high pressing at times, but we managed to defend well and clear the ball on many occasions.
the longer the match goes, the more frustrated they get because they wanted to score," he added.
coach janne andersson was delighted with his side after they kept the 2008 and 2012 european champions scoreless.
"it's not like it was raining goal-scoring chances for spain, even if they had a lot of the ball.
robin (olsen) made some good saves, and there were some other good chances for them too," he told reporters.
andersson sent his side out to be tight and compact, with strikers alexander isak and marcus berg asked to sacrifice the creative part of their game to lead the defensive effort from the front.
"our forwards are the ones who have to run the most and work the hardest, and they are very important when we win the ball based on how we play," andersson said.
the 58-year-old chose to withdraw isak and berg, both of whom had chances to score what would have been a scarcely-deserved winner for the swedes, in the second half to replace them with fresh legs.
"spain are brutally skilful with the ball, and when you go you have to be sure you can be better in your pressing .
.
.
sure, there's absolutely things we could do better in this game, but overall i think we did very well," andersson said.
(reporting by philip o'connor in copenhagen, editing by ed osmond)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
denmark's christian eriksen suffered a cardiac arrest when he collapsed during his side's euro 2020 opening match against finland, his team's doctor confirmed on sunday, but the reason remained unclear.
"he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation)," morten boesen told a news conference, adding that eriksen remained in hospital for further tests after his collapse on saturday.
"the exams that have been done so far look fine," boesen added.
"we don't have an explanation to why it happened.
"eriksen, 29, collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in.
as a hush fell over the 16,000-strong crowd, his team mates gathered around him while he was treated on the pitch and then carried off on a stretcher.
the danish players had been in contact with eriksen via a video conference, said peter moller, director of danish football association dbu.
coach kasper hjulmand said eriksen had told him he did not remember much from saturday's collapse and that he was eager to get back on to the pitch.
"he would like for us to play on," hjulmand said.
"he said he feels like he could go out and play again.
christian feels best when he's got a football close to his feet.
"hjulmand quoted the midfielder as saying: "i think you are feeling worse than i am.
i feel as if i'm about to go training now, boys.
""christian is in good spirits and it's a huge relief for the players after all this uncertainty," hjulmand said.
"there is no doubt that we have been on the ropes.
"messages of support for eriksen, who plays for inter milan, have poured in.
the group b game was halted and eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later.
finland went on to win 1-0 with their only attempt of the game.
former danish internationals peter schmeichel and michael laudrup have criticized governing body uefa over their handling of the collapse.
the players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday.
"looking back, i honestly don't think that we should have been back on the pitch," hjulmand said.
"i have thought about whether i could have done things differently.
"got a confidential news tip?
we want to hear from you.
sign up for free newsletters and get more cnbc delivered to your inboxget this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
© 2021 cnbc llc.
all rights reserved.
a division of nbcuniversaldata is a real-time snapshot *data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
global business and financial news, stock quotes, and market data and analysis.
data also provided by
published :
													14 jun 2021 at 11:45												writer: 
															afp london: england launched their bid for euro 2020 glory with a 1-0 win over croatia on sunday, as scotland were set to end their 23-year wait to play in a major tournament and covid-hit spain prepared to face sweden.
raheem sterling scored at a sun-baked wembley as england won their opening game of a european championship finals for the first time at the 10th attempt.
england's neighbours scotland, playing at the highest level for the first time since the 1998 world cup, will face the czech republic in glasgow on monday, before a new-look spain get their bid for a record fourth european crown underway without captain sergio busquets who tested positive for coronavirus.
but the action on the pitch is still being overshadowed by the fallout from the shocking events in copenhagen's parken stadium on saturday when christian eriksen suddenly collapsed during denmark's group b loss to finland, lying motionless as medics administered cpr.
the match resumed nearly two hours later following a suspension after reports filtered through that eriksen was in a stable condition and awake.
"he was gone, and we did cardiac resuscitation, and it was cardiac arrest," team doctor morten boesen told a press conference on sunday.
"how close were we?
i don't know.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation), so that's quite fast.
"denmark forward martin braithwaite called the incident "one of the scariest moments of my life".
"i'm grateful that he's stable and alive.
right now, that's all that matters.
hope to see you soon my friend," he tweeted.
england make winning starton sunday, manchester city's sterling scored his first goal at a major tournament as england gained a measure of revenge for their 2018 world cup semi-final defeat by croatia.
the forward's sharp finish in the second half was enough for the home side to send the wembley crowd home happy.
sterling grew up in the shadow of london's wembley and justified manager gareth southgate's decision to keep faith with him by scoring the only goal just before the hour.
"i always said if i played at wembley in a major tournament, i'm scoring.
i had to score in my back garden and delighted to do that," he told the bbc.
england, seeking to end a 55-year wait for a major trophy, are playing all three group games at their london home.
if they top group d they will also play there in the last 16, while london is also the venue for both semi-finals as well as the final on july 11. the netherlands, back at a major tournament for the first time since 2014, defeated ukraine 3-2 in a thrilling group c encounter in amsterdam.
dutch captain georginio wijnaldum put the hosts ahead early in the second half before wout weghorst doubled their advantage.
ukraine equalised with two quick goals from andriy yarmolenko and roman yaremchuk, but a denzel dumfries header five minutes from time earned frank de boer's side victory.
north macedonia lost 3-1 to austria in their first match in a major tournament as an independent nation in bucharest, despite an equaliser from 37-year-old captain goran pandev.
scotland set to celebrate returnscotland's match in group d has been slightly overshadowed by the racism ban which ruled czech defender ondrej kudela out of the tournament.
the slavia prague player was suspended for 10 games for racially abusing rangers midfielder glen kamara on a europa league visit to scotland in march.
"i believe that he did not tell him anything racist, there was no evidence, but a lot of people on the islands (the uk) condemned him and he received a severe sentence," said czech republic and west ham midfielder tomas soucek.
but scotland's fans will be sure to celebrate at hampden park, with their side finally back in the big time.
"i hope it inspires a nation, i hope we can make them happy.
you can feel a real buzz around the country already," said scotland captain andy robertson.
the coronavirus, which delayed the tournament for a year, is still proving a major headache.
portugal defender joao cancelo has tested positive for covid-19 and is out of euro 2020, with diogo dalot taking his place in the squad.
spain's preparations have been badly hit by the virus, with busquets missing for monday's clash with sweden in seville, while defender diego llorente was only allowed to rejoin the group on saturday after giving a fourth consecutive negative test.
"it's been a tough week, without doubt, but no complaints, no excuses," said spain coach luis enrique.
the other opening group e game sees robert lewandowski's poland face slovakia in saint petersburg.
world cup holders france -- with karim benzema recalled -- are the favourites to win the continental crown.
they begin their campaign against germany in munich on tuesday, with holders portugal facing hungary in the other group f match.
kalasin: a college student died after crashing his motorcycle into the rear of a stationary pickup in muang district of this northeastern province late on monday night, police said.
samut prakan: a 73-year-old retired police officer died on monday, five days after receiving a shot of astrazenica covid-19 vaccine, police said.
washington: the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
former spain midfielder luis garcia believes the fact that la furia roja are not among the favourites to win euro 2020 could work in their favour.
after a week without training and three years of upheaval, spain head into their opener against sweden tomorrow morning (singapore time) determined to leave the past behind.
luis enrique was appointed to ring the changes in the aftermath of the 2018 world cup, when going out on penalties to russia had made it three consecutive failures to reach the quarter-finals of a major tournament.
spain's preparations for the euros have been hardly ideal, with captain sergio busquets and defender diego llorente testing covid-19 positive, although the latter has since received four consecutive negative tests and been allowed to rejoin the squad.
due to the positive tests, their final warm-up match against lithuania was played by spain's under-21s, with the senior team in isolation and unable to train together.
ahead of their clash with sweden, who have also seen their plans disrupted by the positive tests for dejan kulusevski and mattias svanberg, former champions league winner garcia told indian media: "it can be an advantage.
"we have seen many times that when the spotlight is not on you, the players arrive with a little less pressure.
"(when you are favourites) the media brings the pressure when you play.
.
.
"everyone expected them to perform the way they did in 2008, 2010 and 2012," he said, in reference to spain's two european championship wins, which sandwiched their maiden world cup triumph.
he added: "at the moment, spain probably don't look like favourites.
(but) for me, they are good enough.
"we have got very good players thiago (alcantara) in midfield will be key.
he is a player who can create something out of nothing.
"there are players like (striker) gerard moreno who can kill the game in a single second because he has been fantastic this whole season.
"cesc fabregas, who was involved in spain's era of success from 2008-2012, also was optimistic about enrique's charges, who are the fifth-youngest team at the euros.
he told goal.
com: "i don't like it when we are complaining before the tournament starts about the squad.
"i had it in 2008 when i was 21, i think.
there was (david) silva and (andres) iniesta coming through, and everyone was doubting us a bit because raul (gonzalez), (michel) salgado, (santiago) canizares and (david) albelda weren't called up.
"all those players were cast aside to make space for us young players.
"we ended up winning the tournament and i don't think i need to repeat what happened after.
.
.
it will not be easy for spain.
.
.
it is a young team but they have proven that they can play well in qualification.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
england manager gareth southgate may have just altered the course of the three lions' euro 2020 history.
no team have played in as many european championship games as england who are making their 10th finals appearance without ever reaching the final.
until last night's 1-0 win over croatia in their group d opener, the class of 2021 appeared destined to become the latest chapter of a seemingly never-ending hard luck story of self-defeatism.
but with a mix of bold choices and selection gambles, southgate might have changed that.
raheem sterling's 57th-minute strike, pouncing onto a through-ball from influential leeds united midfielder kalvin phillips, breathed new life into a flagging three lions team who had resolutely attempted to take the game to their ageing visitors in the first half.
the manchester city forward's inclusion in the starting line-up itself had already sparked consternation, with southgate lambasted before the game for choosing a player who had grown up in the shadow of wembley, ahead of jack grealish and jadon sancho.
yet, the england manager's gamble paid off handsomely as he ended an unflattering sequence of nine winless opening group salvos in the continent's flagship tournament.
he refused to bow to public pressure and persevered with a player whose track record of scoring for his country had produced a flawless return of 10 previous victories.
southgate can also claim vindication for favouring protectionism over panache with kieran trippier's rare deployment at left-back raising eyebrows and questions alike.
prior to staring down zlatko dalic's charges, he had played in the role on just four previous occasions, with the previous weekend's friendly win over austria the most recent.
having the inside knowledge to nullify atletico madrid teammate sime vrsaljko, operating on the right side of defence, saw trippier chosen over the in-form duo of luke shaw and ben chilwell.
hindsight suggests that southgate's boldness reaped a deserved reward as trippier rarely appeared troubled by croatia's three-pronged attack while right-back kyle walker recovered from a shaky first-half to shackle ivan perisic and josko gvardiol.
for a time, this maiden group d encounter was in danger of following a similar pattern for england.
as the clock ticked down towards the interval, phil foden's early effort that crashed against the base of dominik livakovic's right-hand post increasingly faded from memory with luka modric and mateo kovacic taking turns to wrest back control from their hosts.
once temperatures soared at england's national stadium, however, the black-shirted croatians wilted.
they struggled to contain the omnipotent threat posed by sterling, phillips as well as second-half substitutes marcus rashford and jude bellingham.
southgate's willingness to trust his instincts has further shifted the perception of the englishman, who has made the job his own these past 41⁄2 years.
before last night, no england manager had the presence of mind to field a starting line-up devoid of liverpool or manchester united players at a major tournament, since the euro 1992 clash against against france.
refusing to pander solely to representatives of the english premier league's traditional big six is an indication of southgate's willingness to place his hopes in the new brightest and best.
that should mean more minutes for the likes of phillips, aston villa's tyrone mings the first villan to start for england at the euros since southgate himself played against germany in 1996 and west ham united midfielder declan rice.
full-throated renditions of "football's coming home" at the final whistle may still be somewhat premature but england have never been in a stronger position to deliver.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen • denmark playmaker christian eriksen remained in hospital yesterday but is in a "stable" condition after collapsing during his country's euro 2020 group b game against finland on saturday, the danish football union (dbu) said.
"this morning, we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his team-mates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination," it tweeted.
the 29-year-old player suffered a cardiac arrest, the team doctor confirmed, but the reason remained unclear.
"he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation)," dr morten boesen told a news conference, adding that eriksen remained in hospital for further tests.
"the exams that have been done so far look fine.
we don't have an explanation to why it happened.
"the dbu also said that the team and staff had "received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident".
the news will have come as relief to eriksen's current and former teammates, many of whom wished him well.
the inter milan midfielder collapsed in the 43rd minute of denmark's euro 2020 opener, laying motionless on the pitch as medical personnel performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr).
captain simon kjaer reportedly helped to clear eriksen's airways first and started cpr before medics took over.
goalkeeper kasper schmeichel was seen consoling eriksen's wife sabrina kvist.
both players earned widespread praise as heroes.
the game was suspended temporarily but after receiving confirmation that eriksen was all right and in a stable condition and awake, uefa gave the danes an option to resume the game shortly or restart yesterday at noon local time.
1.  fabrice muambathe bolton man collapsed during an fa cup match in 2012 due to a cardiac arrest and was technically "dead" for 78 minutes before he was revived.
the former england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
2.  antonio puertathe sevilla midfielder collapsed during a spanish la liga match in 2007 and again in the dressing room.
he was rushed to hospital, where he died three days later of multiple organ failure due to cardiac arrest at the age of 22.
3.  marc-vivien foethe cameroon midfielder, 28, died during a confederations cup match in 2003.  medical staff failed to restart his heart on the pitch and he was pronounced dead.
reutersthe former tottenham star was said to have told his teammates to return to the field and denmark coach kasper hjulmand also insisted there was no pressure from uefa, but some felt the game should have been called off and rescheduled to a later date.
manchester united great peter, the danish custodian's father, told the bbc: "it's a ridiculous decision by uefa.
they should have tried to work out a different scenario and shown a little bit of compassion, and they didn't.
"when the game resumed, the atmosphere at parken stadium was considerably muted and the hosts appeared to be distracted, slipping to a 1-0 defeat courtesy of joel pohjanpalo's second-half winner.
the header was one that kasper would normally have saved as it was straight at him, while kjaer had to be taken off in the 63rd minutes as the defender was too "overwhelmed" to continue.
denmark's yussuf poulsen won a penalty when he went down under slight contact in the 73rd minute.
in the absence of usual spot-kick taker eriksen, pierre-emile hojbjerg assumed the responsibility but the midfielder could only hit his penalty straight at finland goalkeeper lukas hradecky and hjulmand later admitted that his players were "traumatised".
in the aftermath of the shocking event, conspiracy theories sprung up on the internet, suggesting that eriksen had previously contracted covid-19 and had been vaccinated.
but inter director giuseppe marotta dismissed those claims, saying there was no truth behind them, while eriksen's former cardiologist, dr sanjay sharma of st george's, university of london, added he had no heart issues during his seven-season spell at spurs.
the dbu yesterday called off a scheduled press conference while the team's next training session was postponed indefinitely, local broadcaster tv2 reported.
agence france-presse, reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
home  f365 says  f365 says: dominant spain suffer from familiar flawdate published: monday 14th june 2021 10:54                 ian watson spain's lack of potency is nothing new but luis enrique must find a fresh and swift solution.
.
.
luis enrique is unlikely to panic after seeing his spain side fail to make their dominance pay against sweden.
with one win from their last six major tournament openers, la roja are used to starting slowly.
another familiar failing, though, will keep enrique awake tonight after this stalemate in seville.
spain's positive approach play, once again, was wasted by their forward line.
never did spain look more like a team of midfielders.
with 75 per cent possession, the hosts passed and passed, 953 times to be precise – 231 more passes than any other team in the group stage so far – but with sweden content to sit back and watch the merry-go-round, enrique's men struggled to proportionately test robin olsen.
that is not to say spain did not create chances.
rather, the ones they did were hopelessly wasted.
and the hosts did not muster enough opportunities to be so profligate.
this was always the fear for spain.
despite their previous pedigree and the obvious talent within enrique's ranks, the lack of potency in attack has kept them off many people's list of genuine contenders to win the tournament.
17 – spain had 17 shots in tonight's draw against sweden, their highest tally in a major tournament game (european championships + world cup) without scoring since having 25 attempts against switzerland in a group stage match at the 2010 world cup.
stalemate.
#euro2020 #esp #swe pic.
twitter.
com/bbvt0vopun— optajoe (@optajoe) june 14, 2021the absence of firepower and concerns over the heart of their defence were seen the primary flaws in enrique's plan, but the forward line must be a far greater concern for enrique than the raw partnership between pau torres and aymeric laporte.
alvaro morata, handsome-yet-hapless, is the obvious poster boy for spain's striking woes.
the atletico madrid striker, who spent the season on loan at juventus, was trusted by enrique to lead the line but morata proved his many doubters right once more.
he wasted spain's biggest chance, one that arrived courtesy of sweden's only defensive slip of the night.
the otherwise-excellent marcus danielson missed jordi alba's hopeful pass to allow morata a clear shot but with time and space to pick his spot, the striker inexplicably rolled the ball wide of the target.
morata's subsequent subdued slump towards enrique's hook was inevitable to anyone who saw the forward endure a miserable season and a half at chelsea.
no club among chelsea, real madrid, atletico, juventus has yet trusted morata to lead their line for more than two consecutive seasons before deciding to source their goals elsewhere.
for enrique, consecutive games at euro 2020 would be too many.
morata is certainly not the only striker for whom confidence is key, but few are as extreme as the 28-year-old.
morata has failed to score in his last four spain appearances and he has only two goals in eight appearances since earning another shot in enrique's squad at the back end of last year.
gerard moreno is the most obvious replacement, but ferran torres was moved inside for a brief attempt at leading the line after morata was withdrawn on 66 minutes.
torres lasted only eight minutes more before being replaced by moreno.
and the villarreal striker was guilty too of wasting a glorious late chance when he directed a close-range header straight at olsen.
when enrique assesses his options for the crucial clash with poland on saturday night, moreno offers the most in-form alternative to morata.
his 30 goals in 46 games in all competitions for villarreal make a most compelling case.
enrique could be forgiven for looking enviously at sweden's biggest threat, aleksander isak.
the real sociedad striker was constant threat to spain.
the 21-year-old's power and technique created sweden's two best opportunities, with spain lucky to avoid being on the end of a swedish smash and grab.
there were some positives for enrique.
chief among them, pedri.
the barcelona youngster became spain's youngest-ever player at the european championships and his influence grew as the game wore on.
which it certainly did for many neutral observers.
even pedri, though, was perhaps not as direct as he had been for barca last season and a lack of leaders around the 18-year-old is another concern for enrique, especially while sergio busquets sits out.
the greatest worry, though, remains spain's inability to profit from their possession.
patrik schick was sublime and lyndon dykes wasn't.
that was the difference.
no longer is the english game "all about heart".
foden is king of a new breed that would suit other countries.
none of those players or officials should have been asked to play on so soon after fearing for christian eriksen's life.
.
.
it took 'the end' of italian football to create it, but boy, was it worth it.
that really was quite something.
page said the draw with switzerland 'felt like a win'.
a passive point might not look so good later on.
.
.
edu and arteta are throwing the net wide this summer as they look to make six arsenal signings.
kalvin phillips and raheem sterling were all kinds of mint.
and so, too, was gareth sodding southgate.
patrik schick was sublime and lyndon dykes wasn't.
that was the difference.
some efl managers have done enough to deserve a bigger club.
we're on board for michael duff at burnley.
.
.
kalvin phillips shone in a major tournament opener on his ninth england cap.
it brings darius vassell to mind.
england played more like germany than john nicholson can ever remember as they controlled v croatia.
update your browser to view this website correctly.
update my browser now×
london: raheem sterling finally found his tournament touch when his 61st-minute goal gave england a deserved 1-0 win over croatia at wembley on sunday (jun 13) as they began a european championship with a victory for the first time in nine attempts.
sterling, something of a surprise starter after a flat end to the domestic season but a favourite of manager gareth southgate, slid home after great work by kalvin phillips to end an individual drought that had run through england's three previous major tournaments.
"it feels good.
i grew up two minutes down the road, so i knew i had to score here, and it was a great feeling to do it," said the wembley-raised forward.
southgate said he was unaware of england's previous run of opening-game failures despite having played in one of them in 1996 but, as expected, was not getting carried away by a solid but unexceptional display.
"it's for everybody else to get excited and throw their beer around and do whatever they want," he said.
"it's brilliant to give that joy to people.
but for us, it's on to the next one and preparing for a really tough game on friday (against scotland).
"but i was really pleased with the way we settled so quickly.
big occasion, sweltering hot day, every reason to look nervous at the start, but we didn't.
with and without the ball, we were composed.
although it was always going to be a game of few clear chances, we looked the bigger threat throughout.
"the game lacked the jeopardy of the teams' 2018 world cup semi-final, won by croatia, and losing on sunday was no disaster for them given the way the draw pans out, but it was a morale-boosting victory for england as they set off once again in search of their first title since 1966. pace flaggedroared on by a noisy 22,500 crowd a quarter of wembley's capacity they started full of bright intentions and put huge pressure on the visitors.
phil foden, his bleached hair channelling paul gascoigne from euro 96, almost gave them a dream start when he cut in from the right and curled a low shot against a post.
phillips, impressive all afternoon, then had a 25-yard shot blocked but, instead of riding the early momentum, england lost their way and, with the sun beating down, the pace and energy seeped out of the game either side of the break.
england eventually shook themselves out of the torpor and struck when phillips drove through the retreating defence, rode two tackles and played the ball expertly into the path of the darting sterling who, under pressure, just got enough on the ball to steer it home.
sterling had looked lively all day and celebrated his first major tournament goal with gusto, though he should have added a second 13 minutes later but blazed wildly over the bar.
another bright spot for england was the introduction of substitute jude bellingham who, at 17 years and 349 days, became the youngest player to appear in the european championship finals.
croatia also threw on their attacking subs as they tried to show a bit more ambition but though england's defence looked a little shaky at times there were few chances for an equalizer as, conversely to england, they lost their opening euro match for the first time in their six tournaments.
"we didn't do enough up front and couldn't engineer our trademark fast-flowing moves, but i am optimistic that we'll improve and get it right in the next two games," said coach zlatko dalic.
they are against scotland and the czech republic, who meet on monday, with croatia playing the czechs in glasgow on friday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.




football
                          
spain boss luis enrique on alvaro morata: "i think alvaro had a great game.
of course we all want to take our chances, but other players had chances too.
i think he's used to it, but of course we want to see that support from the fans"by  pa media  tuesday 15 june 2021 00:06, ukluis enrique has defended alvaro morata following the spain striker's two costly misses in monday night's goalless euro 2020 draw with sweden.
spain boss enrique insisted on-loan juventus hitman morata had a "great game" despite spurning two gilt-edged chances in seville.
marcus berg missed a major opening for sweden too, but spain dominated throughout, attempting 954 passes to the swedes' 174. enrique would not be drawn on sweden's containment tactics, before insisting spain have no need to worry about their chances of progressing from group e. "i think alvaro had a great game," said enrique.
"of course we all want to take our chances, but other players had chances too.
"i think he's used to it, but of course we want to see that support from the fans.
"that's football though, it would have been nice to dedicate a win to the fans because they were fantastic for most of the game today.
17 spain had 17 shots in tonight's draw against sweden, their highest tally in a major tournament game (european championships + world cup) without scoring since having 25 attempts against switzerland in a group stage match at the 2010 world cup.
stalemate.
#euro2020 #esp #swe pic.
twitter.
com/bbvt0vopun"we are going to analyse this game in detail as we always do.
but in this case i think it's really clear, we've all seen what happened this evening so there's really not too much to go into.
"we were by far the better team.
the opposition tried to hang back, we completely controlled the game and tried to create as many chances as possible.
"we had sufficient chances to win the game.
what went wrong?
it's the fact we didn't take those chances.
"it's very clear and we all saw it.
"asked about sweden's defensive approach, enrique continued: "i don't have much of an opinion.
"the coach decided how he wanted to play, and that's completely right of course.
at times you can make that decision and the other team can outdo you.
"they played the way they usually do against us with two strikers.
1 spain completed 419 passes in the first half against sweden, the highest figure in the opening 45 minutes of a european championship game since we have this data available (1980).
control.
#euro2020 #esp #swe"we only allowed them to have one or two chances, whereas we made the sufficient number of chances to win the game.
"but i really don't have an opinion on that, that's a question for mr andersson not me.
"i think we were unlucky to draw tonight.
we had far more chances that's football and we're aware of that.
"we still aspire to winning the group.
if not we'll aim for second and if we can't do that we'll try to be one of the best third-placed teams.
"sweden boss janne andersson was left frustrated to discover striker marcus berg had been abused on social media for his big missed opportunity in front of goal.
asked for his opinion on berg receiving online criticism, andersson replied: "are you joking?
you're joking when you're telling me this.
"you're saying that because he missed a big chance that people are sending him threats?
"are people being negative?
well i don't think you can be negative towards a player who worked his socks off on the pitch.
"marcus berg probably had the most dangerous chance of the match.
"but overall i cannot be anything other than satisfied, because we played really well and we are developing good tactical flexibility.
"i think we could certainly have lost the game but we could also have won the game.
we had some chances also.
"away from home in spain i think they put in a fantastic performance.
spain are brutal with the ball.
"super 6 is back for euro 2020.  could you land the £100,000 on sunday?
play for free, entries by 2pm.
© 2021 sky uk
st petersburg: belgium eased to a comfortable 3-0 victory over russia on saturday (jun 12) with two goals from romelu lukaku and one from thomas meunier to confirm their status among the european championship favourites.
the belgians, top of the fifa rankings, went ahead after only 10 minutes through lukaku and doubled the score before the break through meunier.
lukaku scored his second of the night two minutes from the end extending his record tally for his country to 62 goals.
belgium's obvious superiority was evident throughout the group b encounter in st petersburg, and victory for roberto martinez's team came without kevin de bruyne, out with injury, and only a cameo substitute appearance from captain eden hazard, another of the team's talismans.
belgium go to the top of the group standings, ahead on goal difference from finland, who upset denmark 1-0 in copenhagen earlier on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
wales 1switzerland 1baku • striker kieffer moore is enjoying the "big occasion" after heading in an equaliser, as wales snatched a 1-1 draw against wasteful switzerland in their euro 2020 group a clash at the baku olympic stadium yesterday.
moore, who had a first-half opportunity expertly saved by swiss goalkeeper yann sommer, guided the ball into the net on 74 minutes from a joe morrell delivery as he ghosted into space left by the static swiss defence.
"it's great personally, but it's a good start for us.
we would have liked to have won, but a draw from the first game puts us in a good position," said moore on the bbc.
"it's never good going a goal down, but to get one back and see the game out is a big positive for us.
it was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
"i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
"breel embolo had terrorised the welsh defence and put switzerland ahead when he showed impressive strength to outmuscle defender connor roberts from a corner shortly after half-time.
they also had a late goal by mario gavranovic correctly ruled out by the var (video assistant referee) for offside.
the swiss may blame themselves for not killing off the game earlier, having squandered several golden chances through haris seferovic in the first half and embolo after the break.
defender fabian schar had tried to beat goalkeeper danny ward with a cheeky flick before seferovic's 27th-minute curled shot sailed just over the bar.
the forward squandered two more chances before half-time as the swiss notched 11 attempts to wales' two in the first half.
what his teammates failed to achieve with finesse in the first half, embolo did with sheer power and speed in the 49th minute, heading in from a corner for a deserved lead after his powerful run and shot was saved by ward seconds earlier.
"we knew switzerland would have a lot of the ball and that we'd have to be solid and organised defensively," said wales' caretaker boss rob page told the bbc.
"we wanted a positive start and it feels like a win in the changing room.
i'm so proud of the players for digging so deep.
"with captain gareth bale well-marked throughout, they gradually upped the pressure in search of an equaliser as the swiss eased off and conceded some ground, and moore found the space to beat sommer with a glancing header.
"i feel a bit of frustration with the result, as we had the chances for the second goal but didn't take them," embolo said on uefa.
com.
"perhaps we were too passive after the first goal.
we deserved the win, but it turned out to be a draw and that's a pity.
"we have to take the positives, rest, focus on the next game and bring the good things from this match into the next.
"italy lead the group after their impressive 3-0 victory over turkey in the tournament opener on friday and will host the swiss in rome in their second game on wednesday.
wales stay in the azerbaijan capital to face the turks on the same day.
reutersit was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
austria defeated north macedonia 3-1 in their euro 2020 group c opener in bucharest this morning (singapore time).
stefan lainer gave the austrians the lead in the 18th minute (left), but goran pandev levelled 10 minutes later in north macedonia's first match at a major tournament as an independent nation.
second-half goals from substitutes michael gregoritsch and marko arnautovic then secured the win for austria.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
romelu lukaku paid tribute to christian eriksen after his opening goal for belgium at euro 2020 against russia, dedicating his finish to the denmark international following his collapse against finland on saturday.
the inter forward delivered a message of support for his club team-mate in st.  petersburg after rattling home an early strike against the hosts inside the first quarter-hour.
lukaku and eriksen helped the nerazzurri to a first serie a title in over a decade this season, and were expected to face each other in five days in copenhagen before the latter was rushed to hospital.
after latching onto dries mertens' delivery inside the box played onside by a deflection off a russian defender the striker was able to corral a cool shot past anton shunin to open his account for the tournament.
racing towards the sidelines, he waved away his team-mates coming to join him, instead heading for the nearest television camera to seize it with both hands and shout into its lens: "chris, chris, i love you.
"after belgium won the match 3-0 behind two lukaku goals, the striker admitted it was hard for him to play the match after hearing the news.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with my team-mate christian eriksen," lukaku said.
"i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him.
"on hearing the news about eriksen, lukaku added: "i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spend more time with him than with my family.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family.
"eriksen was taken to hospital after collapsing during the first half of denmark's group b clash with finland, having slumped to the turf untouched.
medics ultimately resuscitated him on-site after a lengthy interval, during which the player's team-mates shielded him while their opponents and the crowd voiced their support.
the fixture was eventually resumed, following confirmation that the former tottenham man was awake and in a stable condition.
finland would emerge as 1-0 victors in their first major tournament thanks to joel pohjanpalo's goal just before the hour mark.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 18:15												writer: 
															reuterscopenhagen: denmark midfielder christian eriksen remained in hospital and was in stable condition on sunday, after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch on saturday, the danish football association said.
"this morning we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalized for further examination," danish fa dbu said on twitter.
eriksen, 29, collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in.
as a hush fell over the 16,000-strong crowd, his teammates gathered around him while he was treated on the pitch and then carried off on a stretcher.
"the team and the staff of the national team has received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident," dbu said.
"we would like to thank everyone for the heartfelt greetings to christian eriksen from fans, players, the royal families from both denmark and england, international associations, clubs etc," it said.
messages of support for eriksen, who plays for inter milan, have poured in.
the group b game was halted and then eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later.
finland went on to win 1-0.  ayutthaya: eighteen employees of phra nakhon si ayutthaya hospital were found to be infected with covid-19 but the situation was under control and it remains open, hospital director chokchai leetho-chawalit said.
wellington: polynesian seafarers likely reached antarctica hundreds of years before the western explorers usually credited with discovering the frozen continent, a new study has concluded.
health authorities reported 17 more covid-19 fatalities on monday and another 3,355 new transmissions, bringing the accumulated toll to 1,466 deaths and the number of cases since the start of the pandemic to 199,264.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
baku (afp) a header from the towering kieffer moore allowed wales to come from behind and draw 1-1 with switzerland in their opening euro 2020 group a game in baku on saturday (june 12).
he nodded home in the 74th minute to cancel out breel embolo's headed opener at the other end, which had come just after half-time.
the draw comes after italy beat turkey 3-0 in the same group in the tournament's opening match in rome on friday.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia monchengladbach's embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
"we're not too disappointed with the draw, it could have been worse," bale told s4c.
"they're a top 10 team in the world, they're there for a reason so we knew in parts we would have to suffer and work hard as a team.
"the best thing for us was to go 1-0 down.
we showed a lot of character, like we always do, to fight back, be brave, get on the ball and get the equaliser.
"switzerland striker gavranovic had a potential winner chalked off by var for offside after he had edged ahead of wales back four.
"over the past year i've hated var but by now, i love it now, fair play," wales midfielder joe allen said.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as the local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding the 1.
95m moore, who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
they broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
netherlands manager frank de boer has vowed that his side will not concede another big lead under his watch, after denzel dumfries' maiden goal for his country rescued victory against ukraine in their euro 2020 opener.
the psv eindhoven man bagged an 85th minute winner after finishes for andriy yarmolenko and roman yaremchuk had cancelled out georginio wijnaldum and wout weghorst's earlier efforts.
de boer's blushes were excused by the late intervention, but coming only weeks after a similar spate of concessions against scotland, the 51-year-old has now sought to assure supporters that it will not become a recurring trait of his side's performances.
"i saw a dutch team that played very balanced and dominant," the former ajax and atlanta united boss told his post-match press conference.
"we can be proud.
"we analyze such games almost to the death.
we want to do everything we can to ensure that something like this [comeback] doesn't happen again.
"playing in front of a vocal home crowd at johan cruyff arena, the netherlands often seemed buoyed by the strength of their support, even at limited capacity, with several players quick to highlight the impact.
wolfsburg striker weghorst, who snagged the oranje's second, was one who delighted in the response, stating: "it was a great thing.
"i'm glad there were 16,000 people in the stadium today.
i've seen a lot of orange.
i am happy that we could celebrate the three points together with the fans.
that was great.
"matchwinner dumfries agreed, adding:  "it's great to hear the fans in the stadium again.
"the dutch's struggles- which echoed their aforementioned 2-2 friendly draw with scotland earlier this month continues to mark out the fragile nature of de boer's tactical formations, having eschewed the 4-3-3 his players have professed to be more comfortable with before for a 3-5-2. nevertheless, there was little criticism post-match, with dumfries adding on the madcap finale: "it was a great moment, a great relief.
we believed in ourselves.
i knew we would still get chances.
"weghorst's contribution to the game was also hailed by his team-mates, with defender stefan de vrij quick to praise his ethic throughout.
"he worked very hard for the team and held balls when we were under pressure," the inter star stated.
"he defended very well and helped his colleagues.
i am very happy with him.
"the netherlands now turn to their next group c clash, welcoming fellow matchwinners austria to amsterdam on june 17, knowing that victory will likely ensure their progression to the knockout stages.
they will be wary of a time who ultimately ran out comfortable victors over north macedonia in the end, but will likely take confidence from their high-energy showing on home turf as they look to end their seven-year tournament exodus with an impressive comeback run.
the time for the netherlands and ukraine teams to meet has come in the euro 2020.  who will be stronger and score the cherished points?
let's list the teams' forms and advise on what is the best bet.
we will offer several options for betting at once!so far it is not quite clear what to expect from the dutch team at the euro.
on one hand, lately, everything has more or less improved and the team began to show quality football, but on the other hand there are plenty of problems.
the absence of virgil van dijk immediately comes to mind.
it is not for nothing that bookmakers do not have much faith in frank de boer's players- they are only eighth in the list of euro favorites.
in general, the dutch players are great there are excellent players in all positions.
the team has good chances to advance from the group stage.
the ukraine national team participated in the strongest league a of the nations league, where it performed well.
it was in a quartet with spain, germany, and switzerland.
however, due to an outbreak of coronavirus in the camp of the ukrainian team, it was awarded a technical defeat in the last match of the tournament with switzerland, so it went down to  league b.  then, in qualifying for the world cup-2022 andrey shevchenko's charges drew with the current world champions the french (1-1).
what is the point of all this?
the point is that ukraine plays well with the top teams.
and if you add fortune, lots and lots of it?
then we get a team that, in theory, has all the chances for a victory.
recall that in addition to the netherlands, austria and north macedonia are also in group c.  this is far from a group of death, so with the proper vision, andrey shevchenko's team should make the playoffs from second or maybe even first place.
of course, bookmakers prefer the dutch.
however, we should not immediately bury ukraine.
as we said above, andrey shevchenko's team has recently met with top teams often, so it has some experience.
it will be the most important match for both teams.
unless the austrians show something supernatural, today the netherlands and ukraine will fight for the first place in the group we should hardly expect them to lose a point afterward.
we don't expect the opponent's big name to scare the ukrainians, so we suggest betting on them.
the best option for betting, in our opinion, is a goal from ukraine.
there is no need to think it up the odds for this event are already great.
even if frank de boer's team manages to squeeze the ukrainians, they will get their moment in 90 minutes.
all they need to do is fulfill it.
that was a pessimistic scenario for ukraine.
however, everything may turn in a completely different way ukraine will not submit to the dutch but will try to score.
if it succeeds, it may even get some points.
prediction: ukraine's individual total over (0.
5).
all materials on this site are available under license creative commons attribution 4.
0 international.
you must include the name of the author (creator) of the work (material) and the party of attribution, copyright notice, license title, disclaimer notice and link to the material, if provided with the material.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
arsenal are plotting a move for real betis midfielder nabil fekir this summer, it has emerged.
the gunners are in the market for a new attacking midfielder in the current transfer window and will hope to strengthen ahead of the new premier league season.
get ready for england to bring it home in this year's euros by wearing england's official football kitmikel arteta missed out on the signing of norwich city's emi buendia to aston villa, who spent a club-record fee to secure the services of the argentina international.
there is still some debate as to whether or not martin odegaard could return to the emirates after a positive loan spell, though it is unclear how new real madrid boss carlo ancelotti views the situation of the norwegian.
a new candidate has now appeared as a possible purchase, with rumours circulating that fekir is being looked at by arsenal.
spanish publication as have reported that there is interest from the north london side, though the two sides are not close to agreeing a transfer fee.
just in: liverpool told to let arsenal sign bissouma and chase £70m man instead  arsenal are believed to have made an opening offer of £20m, which they must now be prepared to raise.
the french midfielder joined betis in 2019 after a number of successful years at lyon in ligue 1. fekir was famously on the verge of completing a move to liverpool in the summer of 2018, having completed a medical ahead of his proposed switch.
but the deal bizarrely fell apart at the last minute, prompting confusion from liverpool supporters who thought the 27-year-old was on his way to anfield.
don't missleno facing arsenal axe as arteta plans huge transfer overhaularsenal transfer plan emerges as edu wants new deal for gunners duo arsenal facing two problems with tyler adams transfer  it was reported that the transfer was called off due to concerns about fekir's knee, though he later addressed those claims in an interview with l'equipe in 2019.
"lots of lies were told and they affected me," he said.
"especially those told about my family.
it hurt them and me.
especially when you know that's what being told is false.
"what was said is not the truth.
my knee is good, i had a quick medical check at clairefontaine, my knee wasn't even mentioned.
if my knee had been in such a bad state, would [jean-michel] aulas have made [an offer to keep me].
"but the worst thing is the idea that people could suggest that it's because of my family that the transfer didn't happen.
it's a lie.
but you have to live with it.
"you want the truth?
even i don't know, i promise you!
added fekir.
"i did my medical and then [liverpool] decided not to sign me.
at some point they wanted to have me believe it was because of my knee but an excuse needed to be found.
"the medical tests that i did at clairefontaine were very clear, my knee is perfectly fine and i feel fine.
there are no issues at all with my knee. "
see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
novak djokovic and stefanos tsitsipas will square off in the final of the 2021 french open today at 14.
00pm (uk time).
novak djokovic produced his best ever performance at roland garros in his semifinal match against rafael nadal.
he recovered from an awful start (0-5 in the first set) to deliver one of most memorable wins of his career against the spaniard.
it was nole's second victory over rafael nadal on parisian clay and he is now bidding to become the first male in the open era to have won all slams at least twice.
nole has won 14 of his last 15 matches on clay and has dropped just five sets in his most recent ten outings.
meanwhile, stefanos tsistsipas has had an excellent start against alexander zverev by taking the first two sets, but then he wasted it and allowed the german to level the score.
however, stefanos managed to regain his focus and clinched the match in the final set to become the first greek to reach the final of a grand slam.
tsitsipas fully deserves his place in the final as he has been one of the best performers on clay over the past two months.
after nole's display in the semifinals, he should be able to lift the trophy here, but we want fancy over 3.
5 sets at the price of 67/100 with bet365.
£10 bet returns £16.
70                
                with bet365 –
                odds correct at time of writingdjokovic v tsitsipas is available to watch live on desktop, mobile or tablet devices in the uk and various other regions worldwide from approximately 5.
30pm bst.
18+ | funded account required | geo restrictions apply | please gamble responsibly1) go to bet365 via this special link2) register an account and make a first deposit of up to £100 to receive up to £100 in bet credits*3) once registered, go to the sports homepage and select 'tennis' from the left-hand menu4) select the play icon next to the match in progress and the stream window will appear*new customers only.
up to £100 in bet credits.
sign up, deposit £5 or more to your account and bet365 will match your qualifying deposit in bet credits when you place qualifying bets to the same value and they are settled.
min odds/bet and payment method exclusions apply.
returns exclude bet credits stake.
t&cs, time limits & exclusions apply.
novak djokovic and stefanos tsitsipas will square off in the final of the 2021 french open today at 14.
00pm (uk.
.
.
follow usresponsible gambling privacy policy copyright © 2021,
        www.
livetennis.
com.
all rights reserved.
necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly.
this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website.
these cookies do not store any personal information.
any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies.
it is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
copenhagen: denmark midfielder christian eriksen remained in hospital but is in a "stable" condition aftercollapsing in his country's euro 2020 game against finlandon saturday, the danish football union (dbu) said on sunday (jun 13).
"this morning we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalized for further examination," the football body said in a post to twitter.
dbu also said that the team and staff had "received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident".
the inter milan star suddenly collapsed in the 43rd minute of denmark's opening euro 2020 game against finland, laying motionless as medical personnel administered cpr.
he laid on the field for about 15 minutes before being carried off the pitch and rushed to hospital.
the game was temporarily suspended awaiting confirmation that eriksen was alright but after reports that the player was in a stable condition and awake, the game was resumed later in the evening, ending in a 1-0 win for underdogs finland.
a sunday press conference with the dbu was cancelled in the morning and the team's scheduled training session has also been postponed indefinitely, broadcaster tv2 reported.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
baku: a header from towering kieffer moore claimed a point for wales in a 1-1 draw with switzerland in baku on saturday (jun 12) to start both teams' euro 2020 campaigns.
moore responded to breel embolo's second-half opener with a quarter of an hour remaining.
both sides trail group a leaders italy, who beat turkey 3-0 in friday's tournament curtain-raiser.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia moenchengladbach's breel embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding 1.
95 metre-tall moore who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
embolo sparks to lifethey broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
dota 2 the international (ti) finally returns after a year's hiatus and is set to take place on august 5 until august 15 in stockholm, sweden with a prize pool of $40,018,195, and out of the18 teams, 12 of them have already been invited to partake in this year's ti.
these teams were selected based on their dpc point rankings, as the top 12 teams in the leaderboard are automatically eligible for the international while the remaining six teams will be selected from regional qualifiers in late june – early july.
the international 10 pro circuit qualifications.
#ti10 #dota2 pic.
twitter.
com/dwiajwodtathere are six more slots for the international, which will be occupied by the winners of the regional qualifiers.
recommended | dota dragon's blood officially gets a season iilog in to leave a commentyour e-mail address is only used to send you esports news from talkesport.
you can always use the unsubscribe link included in the newsletter.
first name*


last name*


email address*


phone number

 i accept the terms and conditions 

subscribe to stay updated.
the scoreboard at copenhagen's parken stadium read denmark 0 finland 1 yesterday morning (singapore time).
but the more important result was delivered at the nearby rigshospitalet medical facility danish playmaker christian eriksen was awake, stable and responsive after suffering cardiac arrest during the euro 2020 group b opener.
tests so far have returned normal results.
many feared the worst after the 29-year-old inter milan midfielder had collapsed on the field while he was about to receive a throw-in in the 42nd minute, with no one challenging him.
cardiologists hailed the quick response from various parties as being crucial to the successful resuscitation of eriksen.
referee anthony taylor promptly stopped play and called for medical attention.
denmark captain simon kjaer, the first to attend to eriksen, checked to make sure that his teammate's airway was clear, before administering the first dose of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr).
dr scott murray, a cardiologist with the uk's national health service, told mailonline that kjaer did the right thing.
"we're just lucky that the players on the pitch knew what to do, to put him in a safe position and make sure he wasn't choking and alert the medical team," said dr murray.
denmark's players and staff some of whom were in tears quickly formed a protective human wall around their stricken teammate as he received medical attention from the physios and paramedics.
eriksen was then revived with a defibrillator and taken to hospital.
team doctor morten boesen said yesterday: "he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation).
"the match resumed one hour and 45 minutes later, after news came through that eriksen had regained consciousness.
denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players had been too overwhelmed by the incident to finish the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand said at the news conference.
players were given the option of finishing the game a day later, said the 49-year-old, adding there was no pressure from uefa to complete it on the same day.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," said hjulmand.
his side lost 1-0 to a joel pohjanpalo header.
the danes used video conferencing to communicate with eriksen, who told hjulman he did not remember much from the collapse and that he was keen to get back on to the pitch.
professor sanjay sharma, who is chairman of the expert cardiology consensus panel for england's football association, told the bbc "the thing that saved eriksen's life was very urgent and rapid medical attention".
dr sharma, who was eriksen's former cardiologist, also told the mail on sunday that the player had no history of heart concerns while he was with english premier league club tottenham hotspur from 2013 to 2019.
"i thought, 'oh my god?
is there something there that we didn't see?'
but i have looked at all the test results and everything looked perfect," said dr sharma.
"from the day we signed him, it was my job to screen him and we tested him every year.
so certainly his tests up to 2019 were completely normal, with no obvious underlying cardiac fault.
i can vouch for that because i did the tests.
"former bolton wanderers midfielder fabrice muamba said that eriksen's collapse evoked memories of his cardiac arrest on the pitch in an fa cup match in 2012.
"to watch it from that distance and not know what was going to happen, it was scary, but credit to the medical staff," muamba, who had to retire soon after his cardiac arrest at the age of 24, told the bbc.
"they have done an amazing job on christian.
i like how his teammates got together to protect him.
"eriksen's former spurs teammates jan vertonghen, toby alderweireld and nacer chadli were distraught when they heard the news ahead of their 3-0 group b win over russia.
his inter teammate romelu lukaku, who bagged a brace, dedicated his goals to him.
while the cause of eriksen's cardiac arrest is uncertain, the quick intervention definitely made a key difference, with cardiologists emphasising the importance of recognising the signs and having life-saving cpr skills.
dr yeo tee joo, consultant cardiologist and director of cardiac rehabilitation at singapore's national university heart centre, tweeted: "praying for #christianeriksen's full recovery.
early recognition + prompt cpr + defibrillation saves lives regardless of aetiology of cardiac arrest.
"extremely important knowledge and skill that all should have.
"uk-based cardiologist dr sam mohiddin told the bbc: "the moment of extreme peril is the time of the cardiac arrest and treating that is a matter that requires people to promptly recognise what is happening and really address it quickly with cpr and a defibrillator.
"cpr saves lives.
most of us should learn how to perform cpr for all sorts of reasons and not just because cardiac arrests can affect sportspeople. "
afp, reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
flying fullback denzel dumfries scored a late winner to earn the netherlands a 3-2 victory over ukraine in a thrilling group c opener at the european championship on monday morning (june 14, singapore time) after the dutch had thrown away a two-goal lead.
dumfries rescued all three points for the home team five minutes from time after ukraine had fought their way back into the match at the johan cruyff arena.
the dutch were 2-0 up with 15 minutes left, only to allow their opponents two quick goals and the chance to share the points before dumfries headed home a dramatic winner to the delight of the home fans.
captain georginio wijnaldum and striker wout weghorst netted within seven minutes early in the second half as the dutch sought a successful return to a major tournament – after a seven-year absence – in front of 16,000 spectators.
wijnaldum's left-foot finish in the 52nd minute opened the scoring before weghorst quickly added a second.
that put the dutch in command but ukraine ensured a nervy finish when captain andriy yarmolenko pulled one back in the 75th minute with a superb strike and roman yaremchuk equalised four minutes later.
wijnaldum scored for a fifth time in his last eight appearances for his country as he snapped up a clearance from ukraine goalkeeper georgiy buschcan, who was attempting to push a square pass away from the dangerous memphis depay.
it was set up after another strong run down the flank from the dutch, whose right wing-back dumfries was particularly dangerous and deserved his big moment at the end.
dumfries was also the provider of the second in the 59th minute although ukraine complained he had fouled rutland malinovskyi in trying to wrestle his way closer to goal.
weghorst reacted quickest to a poor clearance from mykola matviyenko for his second goal in as many games as he repaid coach frank de boer's faith in his hustling ability up front.
yarmolenko brought ukraine back into the game with a fine curling shot from outside the box after exchanging quick passes with malinovskyi.
it was a first goal in six matches at the finals for ukraine and was followed by an equally adept finish as yaremchuk headed home malinovskyi's perfectly-weighted free-kick.
parity lasted only six minutes, however, as dumfries headed home nathan ake's cross.
"i am relieved," wijnaldum said.
"overall, we played a good game, but we gave them two chances in 10 minutes which were two goals.
we need to learn that if we play such a match we need to finish it off well.
we let them get back into the game and that needs to improve. "
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
with most of the major european seasons now complete, the rumour mill has been sent into overdrive as clubs ponder their moves ahead of what will be a busy transfer window.
check out the latest gossip below, and see all official deals here.
as says that arsenal have turned their attention to real betis attacking midfielder nabil fekir, but negotiations over a transfer fee are not close to the la liga club's demands.
the former lyon captain was left out of didier deschamps' 26-man france squad for this summer's european championships but, despite a mixed campaign last season, the spanish club consider the 27-year-old to be one of their best players after contributing to 10 goals in la liga.
and the stance is that betis have no intention of letting their playmaker leave for a low price.
fekir was close to joining the premier league in 2018 after a move to liverpool broke down at the 11th hour.
but if any deal is to take place this time, arsenal must be prepared to raise their initial offer, which is reported to be around £20m.
the news comes as mikel arteta's side continue their search for an attacking midfielder after recently missing out on emi buendia, who was linked to the emirates before agreeing a £33m deal with aston villa.
martin odegaard and dani ceballos are unlikely to return on loan and will head back to real madrid, leaving the gunners short in midfield.
stream espn fc daily on espn+ (u. s.  only)
- euro 2020 fixtures: match dates, times and venues22.
00 bst: that will do it for the latest edition of our live transfer talk blog.
we hoped you enjoyed following along with us and remind you to check back shortly for the latest transfer rumours, reports and completed deals.
goodnight!21.
55 bst: arsenal have opened up talks with lazio winger joaquin correa but will need to up their offer in order to make any headway.
il messaggero and la repubblica writes that arsenal have starting the bidding for the argentine at €20 million but that lazio are looking for more along the lines of €35m for the 26-year-old, who new maurizio sarri wants to work with.
correa has tallied 30 goals and 18 assists in 117 games for lazio, including eight and four in 2020-21.
21.
04 bst: gianluigi donnarumma has agreed to a five-year contract with paris saint-germain, according to fabrizio romano.
the transfer guru suggests that donnarumma will put pen to paper soon, on a deal that will see donnarumma bank around £10million (€12m) per year, plus add-ons.
the 22-year-old goalkeeper, who is currently on international duty with italy at euro 2020, is set to become a free agent at the end of the month.
donnarumma has already made 251 appearances for milan at the tender age of 22, having debuted at 16 for the rossoneri.
20.
17 bst: leicester city are considering a shock €20 million move for barcelona midfielder philippe coutinho, according to mundo deportivo.
the move would reunite the 28-year-old with former manager brendan rodgers, with whom the brazilian had his best season.
barcelona are looking to sell the midfielder, who has struggled with form and injury since arriving for £142 million in 2018.
19.
29 bst: united states international konrad de la fuente looks set to depart barcelona.
rac 1 journalist gerard moreno claims that barcelona are nearing a deal to sell de la fuente to marseille.
moreno claims the two are in negotiating a deal that will see the 19-year-old wide man move to om for around €5 million.
📂💣 konrad de la fuentebarça y olympique de marsella negocian por konradlos dos clubes estudian la fórmula de la operación* traspaso puro, inferior a 5m con opción de recompra fcb* cesión y obligatoriedad de compra#mercato en @esportsrac1 pic.
twitter.
com/tlqsvg8dfvde la fuente, who recently was named barca's youth player of the year, has been at the catalan club since 2013.
18.
43 bst: widely tipped with a move to the united states and mls, former chelsea and arsenal man david luiz is also reportedly drawing interest from france.
la provence have confirmed that marseille are in talks with the 34-year-old brazilian over a potential return to ligue 1.  luiz, who previously played at psg between 2014-16, is reportedly intrigued by jorge sampaoli's project at om.
luiz's wages could prove a stumbling block to a potential deal but la provence writes that a deal " would not be impossible.
"18.
01 bst: new tottenham sporting director fabio paratici is not wasting time.
a day after being announced by the club, the italian is already working hard to put his stamp on the club.
the express claims that paratici has his eyes on making stuttgart and argentina forward nicolas gonzalez his first signing with the club.
the 23-year-old bagged six goals in the bundesliga last season, having fired 14 the year before in helping stuttgart achieve promotion to the top flight.
brighton and fiorentina have also been credited with interest in the versatile forward, with the italian side having already had a bid of £21.
4 million rejected.
17.
06 bst: with carlo ancelotti leaving everton for real madrid, has james rodriguez played his last game for the toffees?maybe not, with the 29-year-old colombian revealing he could still have a future at goodison park.
"i don't know.
i think not.
.
.
.
if i stay another year [at everton] that's fine.
"i don't think ancelotti is going to take me.
"the cycle for me with real madrid is closed.
"rodriguez scored six goals and dished out nine assists last season in 26 games for everton, flashing signs of his old self while playing under ancelotti.
16.
18 bst: scottish champions rangers have rejected multiple bids for defender george edmundson, football insider has learned.
the centre-back, 23, spent the second half of last season on loan playing for wayne rooney at derby county, and multiple english clubs have shown interest in acquiring the youngster on a permanent basis.
15.
33 bst: inter milan striker lautaro martinez has reportedly ended talks over a new contract and could move on, says sport.
barcelona will be most keen as they have been tracking the 23-year-old argentine for some time, but inter will want around €80m from clubs to sign him.
14.
00 bst: eden hazard has said that "it didn't occur to me for a second" to leave real madrid this summer after two injury-hit seasons at the bernabeu, insisting that "i won't leave there as a failure.
"hazard played a part in belgium's 3-0 win over russia in their euro 2020 group opener on saturday in st petersburg, coming off the bench after 72 minutes.
he has only started two matches for real madrid since january, the last being a 2-0 champions league semifinal defeat to chelsea on may 5, after a series of muscular injuries severely limited his impact in 2020-21.  he signed for the club for €100m, possibly rising to €160m, from chelsea in july 2019.
"i'm only myself when i can enjoy myself on the pitch.
that hasn't happened in the last two years at madrid," hazard told belgium's het nieuwsblad.
"if you have one or two injuries you can flip the switch, you recover to come back stronger, but if it's five, six, seven it's much more difficult mentally.
but i keep going.
"13.
05 bst: with inter's financial woes, romelu lukaku should be one of the top targets for clubs this summer.
jurgen klinsmann marvels at the rise of romelu lukaku over the past two years after belgium's 3-0 win over russia.
12.
32 bst: major league soccer's new england revolution are tracking real betis forward juanmi, sources have told espn, while the la liga side's winger cristian tello has also attracted interest from several mls clubs.
juanmi, 28, was an €8m signing for betis in 2019 after impressing at real sociedad but has scored just three league goals in two seasons at the club.
the former spain international missed most of 2019-20 with a heel spur setback that kept him out of action for nine months.
he has a contract until 2024 and betis would be open to moving him on, sources said, to free up space in the squad and on their wage bill.
barcelona youth product tello -- who had more of an impact in la liga last year, scoring five goals -- is also available with just a year left on his contract.
toronto fc were one of the mls clubs to make enquiries about him earlier this year, sources told espn, although as with new england revolution, their three designated player spots are currently full.
11.
47 bst: bayern munich will not be amongst the clubs making big moves this summer, club president herbert hainer has said.
"people should not underestimate the effects of corona, even if we have been able to make ends meet comparatively well up to now, there will be considerable abrasion marks on us," hainer said to bayern munich club magazine "51".
"with the exception of dayot upamecano, no more large transfers are possible with us this summer.
"we signed omar richards and seven players are returning who were on loan.
the aim is to strengthen the squad across the board.
however, the quality is so high that we don't need any further top transfers for it.
the mix is ​​right.
"so far we've only seen the tip of the iceberg, and that won't be caught up in twelve months.
when i am currently hearing some transfer rumors and sums again, i seriously ask myself how the clubs want to finance this, especially since many are burdened with high mountains of debt.
it urgently needs to be more sensible.
it cannot go on in such a way that many constantly live beyond their means.
"bayern star striker robert lewandowski has been linked with clubs like real madrid and chelsea, but hainer insists he won't go.
"robert is the best striker in the world," he added.
"he's still got a two-year contract here, and i can well imagine we'll keep him here even longer.
"- borden: how lewandowski's drive to become a world-class striker was kickstarted by tearful setback11.
04 bst: the mirror says that real madrid left-back marcelo is on the radar of both everton and leeds united.
marcelo, 33, had been linked with juventus and doesn't look likely to stay at the bernabeu this summer as he is reportedly not in the plans of new madrid manager carlo ancelotti.
10.
30 bst: inter milan are looking to get around €80m from clubs who want to sign full-back achraf hakimi.
gab & juls suggest inter's hopes of a bidding war for achraf hakimi are unlikely.
09.
51 bst: liverpool are set to make a move for udinese midfielder rodrigo de paul, says the daily star.
de paul, 27, scored nine goals for udinese in serie a last season and has hinted that he could move on this summer.
arsenal and juventus have also been linked with the argentina international.
09.
11 bst: icymi tottenham hotspur have confirmed the appointment of fabio paratici as "managing director, football" from july 1. spurs announced in a statement that the 48-year-old will be "responsible for managing and developing the club's sporting operations, facilities and footballing infrastructure.
"paratici left juventus earlier this month after 11 years at the club and is increasingly likely to be joined by paulo fonseca as talks continue with the former as roma boss over becoming tottenham's new head coach.
09.
00 bst: new paris saint-germain signing georginio wijnaldum has said he thought he was going to join barcelona this summer after leaving liverpool but the move to camp nou never materialised.
the netherlands captain joined psg this week as a free agent despite being heavily linked with barca for the past year.
"what i can say is that i made a different choice," wijnaldum said in saturday's news conference.
"it was a difficult choice.
we negotiated with barcelona for four weeks, but we have not come to an agreement.
psg was more decisive and faster.
the project also really appealed to me.
but it was difficult.
i have to say that i also thought i would go to barcelona.
that was the only club that was really interested in me for a long time.
"janusz michallik picks which potential transfer would have a greater impact in the premier league title race next season.
manchester city are set to cool their interest in sporting's nuno mendes until after euro 2020.  the portugal left-back has been linked with the premier league champions since the transfer window opened, but the daily mail reports that a deal won't happen until after the conclusion of the tournament.
the 18-year-old is currently with the portugal squad as they prepare for their opening game against hungary.
barcelona president joan laporta is keen to sign manchester city defender joao cancelo, claims mercato.
the report says that barca are interested in a player-exchange deal, with ousmane dembele rumoured as one who could go the other way.
the 27-year-old cancelo joined manchester city in 2019 and featured 28 times in pep guardiola's title-winning campaign last season.
leeds united have identified borna barisic as a transfer target, according to football insider.
the left-back played a prominent role in steven gerrard's title win with rangers last season, starting 43 games while scoring four and assisting seven goals.
the 28-year-old is currently at euro 2020 where he is expected to start for croatia in defence.
philip billing could return to the premier league with norwich city keen on a deal for the midfielder.
the mirror says that a fee in the region of £15m will be required to land the denmark international, who started 36 times in bournemouth's league campaign last season that saw the cherries fall short on their hopes for promotion.
fc salzburg's patson daka is continuing to attract premier league interest and leicester city are the latest team to join the race.
the mirror reports that the foxes see the striker as an ideal replacement for jamie vardy for a fee in the region of £17m, though interest from liverpool and chelsea could see the austrian club raise their desired fee for their star man.
bucharest: substitutes michael gregoritsch and marko arnautovic scored late goals as austria sealed a 3-1 victory over major tournament debutants north macedonia in their group c opener at euro 2020 on sunday (jun 13).
stefan lainer put the austrians ahead early on in bucharest, but 37-year-old captain goran pandev levelled before the half-hour mark to become the second-oldest scorer in euro history and delight the vocal macedonian fans.
but gregoritsch diverted home the deciding goal 12 minutes from time and arnautovic added a third to ensure austria claimed their first-ever european championship win and struck first blood in a group also containing the netherlands and ukraine, who meet in amsterdam later in the day.
"above all, the substitutions really paid off," said austria coach franco foda.
"gregoritsch and arnautovic gave the team a new impulse.
overall i think it was a deserved win.
"austria next visit the dutch on thursday, while north macedonia stay in the romanian capital to face ukraine.
"there's no room for disappointment, we have to improve not to repeat the mistakes we've done in this game," said north macedonia coach igor angelovski.
"now we have to prepare for the next game against ukraine.
i cannot not be proud of my players who qualified for this championship.
"i feel sorry for the supporters, i'm speechless about the atmosphere they've created, i hope we will reward them.
"after a bright start by angelovski's macedonians on sunday, austria struck against the run of play in the 18th minute as right-back lainer met marcel sabitzer's cross at the back post to volley past goalkeeper stole dimitrievski.
lainer celebrated by holding up a shirt with the words "eriksen stay strong" after denmark midfielder christian eriksen suffered a cardiac arrest in their game against finland on saturday.
it was the first time austria had taken the lead in a european championship game.
they quickly threatened a second goal as sasa kalajdzic turned sabitzer's pass too close to dimitrievski.
pandev scores historic goalbut north macedonia continued to press and levelled in the 28th minute as austria goalkeeper daniel bachmann lost the ball as he slid out to collect it after some comical defending, and pandevgleefully accepted the giftto slot into an empty net.
it was a record-extending 38th goal for the former inter milan forward for his country, making him the second-oldest player to net in the tournament after austrian ivica vastic at the age of 38 against poland in 2008. foda sent on arnautovic and gregoritsch as his side dominated the early stages of the second half, but north macedonia remained a danger on the break and boban nikolov was denied on the hour mark by an onrushing bachmann.
minutes later it was austria who almost forged ahead, but gregoritsch's header was excellently palmed away by dimitrievski.
neither side sat back to protect their point, but it was the underdogs who continued to look threatening and ezgjan alioski and eljif elmas both had efforts well blocked.
austria's quality shone through in the closing stages, though, as gregoritsch nipped ahead of dimitrievski to stab home david alaba's low cross.
in the 89th minute, shanghai port forward arnautovic ran clear, rounded the goalkeeper and tapped in to give the scoreline a slightly flattering complexion.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:46 am myt

belgium's romelu lukaku celebrates scoring their third goal against russia at the gazprom arena, saint petersburg june 12, 2021.
— reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
saint petersburg, june 13 — belgium striker romelu lukaku sent a message of support to his stricken inter milan team-mate christian eriksen after scoring, as his double helped the red devils open their euro 2020 campaign with a 3-0 win over russia on saturday.
lukaku gave belgium an early lead in saint petersburg, then shouted "chris, chris, stay strong — i love you" into a pitchside camera during the celebration for his opening goal.
his club team-mate eriksen is recovering in hospital in copenhagen after collapsing on the pitch during extraordinary scenes which overshadowed denmark's 1-0 home defeat by finland in saturday's earlier group b game.
substitute thomas meunier doubled belgium's lead on 34 minutes before lukaku put the result beyond doubt with a late second goal.
belgium, the world's top-ranked team, are under pressure to deliver at the european championship as some pundits claim this is roberto martinez's last chance to win a title with an ageing squad.
yet even with manchester city playmaker kevin de bruyne and borussia dortmund midfielder axel witsel sidelined by injury, belgium were too strong for russia.
the hosts got off to a bad start when andrei semenov failed to deal with a cross by dries mertens in the build-up to the opening goal.
the ball fell to lukaku, who span away and drove his shot into the bottom far corner on 10 minutes.
belgium's timothy castagne and russia's daler kuzyaev had to be helped off following a nasty clash of heads which saw both players substituted.
meunier, castagne's replacement at right-back, grabbed belgium's second by slotting home the rebound after his dortmund team-mate thorgan hazard swung in a cross which anton shunin failed to hold.
it stayed 2-0 at the break, but russia raised the tempo in the second half as roman zobnin fired over the belgian goal.
real madrid star eden hazard replaced mertens for the final 18 minutes to lift the belgian attack.
with two minutes left, lukaku swept meunier's pass into the russian net to claim his 20th goal in his last 15 international games.
before kick-off, the belgium team were booed for taking a knee to highlight racial injustice, while their russian opponents stood.
jeers echoed around the krestovsky stadium as the entire belgian team, as well as spanish referee antonio mateu lahoz, knelt, while lukaku, whose parents come from the democratic republic of congo, raised his right fist.
england have said they will do the same for their opening game of the european championship against croatia on sunday.
ex-nfl quarterback colin kaepernick started kneeling to protest against racial injustice in 2016. the gesture has become a familiar sight across a range of sports since george floyd, who was black, was killed by a white police officer in the united states last year.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
the austrian national team will start euro 2020 with a match against the national team of northern macedonia.
the future rivals played each other in the qualifying tournament for euro 2020, both matches were won by the austrians, who are quoted as favorites for the upcoming game.
the austrian national team confidently passed the qualifying tournament for euro 2020, famously played in the league of nations 2020/21, breaking into the elite of european football, but questions to the austrians appeared in the opening matches of world cup 2022 qualification.
the team started the qualifying with a draw against scotland, continued with a 3-1 victory over the faroes.
and in the third round, the austrians were defeated on their field by the danes 4-0.  in june 2021, the austrian national team played two friendly matches, the future formal hosts of the field lost minimally to the british 0-1 and tied with slovakia 0-0.  in general, we can say that austria's once high-scoring and productive national team has been unable to score for three games or 270 minutes.
we would not have seen the northern macedonian team on the fields of euro 2020 had it not been for the new format of the continental selection and the league of nations.
the balkans won the qualifying rounds and made it to the major forum for the first time in their history.
that success boosted the national team and in qualifying for the 2022 world cup the national team of northern macedonia may well compete for a direct ticket, despite the quite decent group.
after the defeat against the romanians in qualification, the national team of northern macedonia defeated the team of liechtenstein at home 5-0 and defeated the germans 2-1 on the road.
just before the start of the euros, the balkans tied with the slovenians and defeated kazakhstan 4-0. the austrian national team has not been able to score in three consecutive matches.
however, we believe that in the first round of the european championship they will break the unpleasant streak.
it is clear that the status of the upcoming match is higher than the previous ones, and caution may prevail, but we hope for the continuation of the upward trend in this encounter.
let's not forget that the austrians have matches against ukraine and the netherlands ahead.
the austrians have no right to lose points against the group c teams, otherwise, the future formal hosts risk missing the playoffs.
in this match, we offer the following bets: both teams to score yes for 2.
25, w1 for 1.
73, tu (1.
5) for 2.
875all materials on this site are available under license creative commons attribution 4.
0 international.
you must include the name of the author (creator) of the work (material) and the party of attribution, copyright notice, license title, disclaimer notice and link to the material, if provided with the material.
other english editionsgoal takes a look at the biggest transfer news and rumours from the premier league, la liga, serie a and around the worldvakoun bayo is set to return to parent club celtic with toulouse unlikely to exercise their option to sign the ivory coast striker, reports the daily record.
bayo hit 13 goals in 35 games on loan at the ligue 2 side last season, but their failure to earn promotion back to the french top flight means they are unlikely to pursue a permanent deal.
bayo, who joined celtic from dunajská streda in 2019, made just nine appearances in two years before joining toulouse at the start of this season.
leeds are interested in lyon left-back maxwel cornet, reports the sun.
the 24-year-old first broke into the team as a forward but has excelled since being converted into an attacking full-back.
marcelo bielsa is a huge admirer of the ivory coast international, though they are reluctant to meet lyon's £20 million ($28m) asking price.
napoli have identified feyenoord's marcos senesi as a replacement for nikola maksimovic, according to todofichajes.
maksimovic will leave the italian club on a free transfer this summer and argentine defender senesi is now top of their shortlist.
however, some negotiation will be needed as napoli are not currently prepared to meet feyenoord's €20 million (£17m/$24m) valuation of the 24-year-old.
marseille have declared an interest signing brazil defender david luiz, according to la provence.
the 34-year-old is a free agent after leaving arsenal at the end of last season.
a number of mls clubs are also believed to be interested in the former chelsea player.
southampton and west ham are interested in boavista forward alberth elis, according to a bola.
the honduras international, who can play on both flanks, scored eight goals in 31 league games for boavista last season.
brighton and watford have previously been linked with the 25-year-old.
kylian mbappe says he has never asked paris saint-germain to sign a player during his time at the club, firing back at comments by president nasser al-khelaifi amid continued speculation over his future.
the france international's time at parc des princes looks to potentially be on borrowed time, with the striker's contract set to expire in 2022 and no new deal yet agreed between the ligue 1 giants and the 22-year-old.
mbappe previously admitted that he was unsure over his future, sparking comments from al-khelaifi claiming that the forward has no say over recruitment and the world cup winner has now hit back in the war of words.
read the full story on goal!arsenal, aston villa and wolves are among the sides vying for rangers star borna barisic, says football insider.
the croatia international missed out on his country's defeat to england in their euro 2020 opener but remains of interest to a host of premier league clubs.
the 28-year-old played a vital role in ending rangers' title wait this term as steven gerrard's side supplanted celtic in scotland.
italy shotstopper set for ligue 1gianluigi donnarumma has agreed personal terms for a move to paris saint-germain, per l'equipe.
the milan shotstopper has been widely tipped to leave san siro this summer and was reported to have cleared a medical over the weekend with the ligue 1 heavyweights, deposed as champions this term.
now, he will move to the french capital on a long-term deal, one which will be rubber-stamped before italy face switzerland at euro 2020 this coming week.
james rodriguez does not expect to follow carlo ancelotti back to real madrid.
there have been rumours that the coach could push madrid to sign the 29-year-old again since he replaced zinedine zidane at the helm, but rodriguez doubts that will happen.
read the full story on goal!federico dimarco had a fantastic season for hellas verona last year and returns to inter this summer.
but calciomercato claims the italian side are not convinced he has what it takes to play for simone inzaghi's team and are willing to listen to offers for him.
cagliari are showing most interest, while napoli also have an eye on him.
ac milan have made an offer to sign junior firpo, but barcelona would rather see him play in the premier league.
mundo deportivo reports the catalan side want to sell him, whereas milan want him on loan with an option to buy.
right now west ham and southampton are the two interested parties who could snap him up.
atletico madrid have offered a contract to hakan calhanoglu, sky sport claims.
he is available for free this summer as his contract at ac milan expires at the end of the month and the spanish side hope to snap him up.
leicester are keeping an eye on philippe coutinho's situation at barcelona, mundo deportivo claims.
the foxes have not decided if they will make a move for him but could make a €20 million bid or try to land him on loan.
⚒ pedrinho is a #shakhtar player!
welcome!
🧡  the midfielder signed a 5-year deal with the club.
✍️ transfer details: https://t.
co/bqidcs2osr.
pic.
twitter.
com/hfiyvccetaex-paris saint-germain and ac milan forward jeremy menez could be on the move this summer.
the 34-year-old is now at reggina in serie b but the club need to sell him for financial reasons and are currently considering offers from teams in france and russia, according to corriere dello sport.
hamadi #alghaddioui has signed a one-year contract extension, keeping him at the club until 2️⃣0️⃣2️⃣2️⃣!
✍️🤍❤️#vfb pic.
twitter.
com/9zqgzuuxfocrystal palace are planning to submit a £15 million ($21m) bid for chelsea's conor gallagher according to the sun.
the 21-year-old impressed on loan at west brom last season, and the eagles are now hoping to bring him in on a permanent deal.
gallagher would like to stay at chelsea and fight for a place in thomas tuchel's side, but he may be tempted by the prospect of guaranteed minutes at palace.
atletico madrid are eager to keep hold of manchester united-linked full-back kieran trippier according to the daily star.
the red devils have been tipped to launch a summer bid for the 30-year-old, but diego simeone wants him to remain at wanda metropolitano for at least one more season.
trippier, who spent four years at tottenham before joining atletico in 2019, has two years left to run on his contract with the spanish champions.
fiorentina are keen on signing inter midfielder stefano sensi as calcio mercato reports.
the 25-year-old has struggled with injuries at san siro, where he is contracted to remain until 2024. it has been suggested that inter could cash in on sensi this summer, with fiorentina poised to swoop.
juventus defender radu dragusin is the subject of interest from crystal palace as calcio mercato reports.
the eagles have already submitted an offer for the 19-year-old, whose current contract in turin is due to run until 2025. dragusin would prefer to stay at juventus and fight for a place in massimiliano allegri's squad next season.
tottenham chairman daniel levy has warned harry kane that he will do what's best for the club as the striker eyes a summer exit.
kane is being tipped to bring his 12-year career at spurs to an end after another trophyless campaign in 2020-21, with the 27-year-old openly admitting that he is motivated to add major silverware to his cv over the next few years.
levy understands kane's frustrations, but says he will have the final say on his future along with incoming sporting director fabio paratici.
read the full story on goal.
jesse lingard has told manchester united that he wants to stay on their books for next season according to the sun.
the 28-year-old shone during a loan spell at west ham in 2020-21 after falling down the squad pecking order at west ham.
the hammers are eager to sign lingard outright, but the midfielder has made it clear he wants to fight for a place at united after holding talks over his future with solskjaer.
paulo dybala and juventus are still at odds over a potential contract extension for the forward according to calcio mercato.
the argentine's current deal is due to expire next year and he is holding out for a new agreement in turin worth €10 million per annum.
juve are eager to keep hold of dybala, but cannot afford to match his wage demands amid the coronavirus pandemic.
manchester city are delaying a potential summer swoop for sporting lisbon left-back nuno mendes according to the mirror.
the blues won't submit an offer for the 18-year-old until after euro 2020, which could allow real madrid to steal his signature from right under their noses.
mendes helped sporting clinch the primeira liga title last term, and has four years remaining on his current deal.
everton have identified barcelona goalkeeper neto as a transfer target according to mundo deportivo.
it has been suggested that the 31-year-old is one of several first-team stars at camp nou that could be sold as the club seeks to reduce their wage bill this summer.
everton are looking at neto, whose contract at barca is due to run until 2023, to provide extra cover for no.
1 shot-stopper jordan pickford.
rangers left-back borna barisic is the subject of interest from leeds united according to football insider.
the whites are weighing up a summer bid for the 28-year-old, who is under contract at ibrox until 2024. barisic started 43 games for rangers last season, scoring four goals and laying on a further seven.
psg are still interested in achraf hakimi after €60m bid turned down, chelsea have been in contact with his agent but not advanced yet.
🇲🇦 #psg #cfc  inter are considering to sign stefan radu as new centre back he's free agent after many years at lazio.
🇷🇴 @dimarzio #interbristol city, swansea city and cardiff are all interested in free agent midfielder matty james, reports the daily mail.
the 29-year-old has departed leicester after nine years at the club, having spent last season on loan at barnsley and coventry city.
gunners trying to sign real betis stararsenal are in talks to sign real betis midfielder nabil fekir according to as.
the gunners have already submitted one offer for the 27-year-old, but the spanish outfit are demanding a much higher fee.
negotiations between the two clubs are ongoing, with arsenal having turned their attention to fekir after missing out on emi buendia, who joined aston villa from norwich last week.
crystal palace are set to make a £15 million ($21m) bid for chelsea midfielder conor gallagher, says the sun.
gallagher, 21, impressed on loan at west brom last term, proving he could handle himself in the premier league.
though gallagher is keen to prove himself at chelsea, the blues could sell if they get a bid that proves too hard to turn down.
bournemouth have made an approach to hire patrick vieira as their new head coach, the mirror reports.
the cherries have decided not to bring back jonathan woodgate after he failed to lead the side back to the premier league.
vieira has managed ligue 1 side nice and mls outfit new york city fc in his managerial career thus far.
sebastian abreu has called time on a remarkable career that saw him play for a world-record 31 clubs.
the 44-year-old former uruguay international made the announcement after joining uruguayan side sud america in march.
"the curtain comes down after 26 years," abreu said.
"i decided with conviction obviously, understanding that it is the right moment, being active, playing in the first division.
i think that is the way, the team is well, it is the right time.
"leicester city have joined the race for red bull salzburg star patson daka, reports the express.
the 22-year-old has a host of premier league clubs chasing his signature after scoring 27 goals in 28 league games for the austrian champions in 2020-21. ashley young is leaning towards a return to the premier league with burnley, reports the mirror.
the 35-year-old will be a free agent at the end of june and has yet to sign a new contract with inter.
though inter are keen on bringing young back, he could opt for a return to his home country with the clarets.
the red devils saw their first offer rejectedmanchester united will make a new move for borussia dortmund star jadon sancho, reports the times.
dortmund rejected united's initial offer for the england winger, but the red devils are confident they will get a deal over the line.
the bundesliga side are looking for a transfer fee of £77.
5 million ($109m) and plus an additional £10.
5m ($15m) in add-ons.
the lyon attacker has been on ronald koeman's radar for a whilememphis depay will be announced as a barcelona player within the next week, claims sport.
he will be brought in on a free transfer, though his wages are expected to be significant.
the 27-year-old is currently at euro 2020 with the netherlands, so announcing the deal in the near future would mean doing so in the middle of the tournament.
marcelo is likely to be sold by real madrid in the upcoming transfer window, and everton and leeds united are among the teams who could make an offer for him, according to the mirror.
the 33-year-old left-back is not in carlo ancelotti's plans, but his vast footballing experience could make him an asset in england.
tyc sports says monterrey have come to an agreement to purchase esteban andrada from boca juniors for about $6 million.
the goalkeeper allowed just 13 goals in 34 matches across all competitions this past season.
gigi buffon is close to join parma!
he could come back to the club where he started his career 26 years ago.
🇮🇹 #buffon  talks ongoing buffon received more than five proposals, one from besiktas too but he's really tempted to sign for parma with an ambitious project.
🧤 #parma pic.
twitter.
com/yywu7i3ze2borussia dortmund will be able to automatically renew midfielder jude bellingham's contract once he turns 18 years old, reveals bild.
the teenage sensation is set to play a key role for england at euro 2020 and is considered one of the best prospects in europe.
his deal, once automatically extended, will run until 2025. ufc mega-star khabib nurmagomedov has said he is thinking about accepting a professional offer to play football.
"if some clubs offer me [a deal] and they make me an interesting [offer], i'm going to accept this," he told his social media following on facebook.
the undefeated pro mma fighter is currently retired from combat sports.
the talented playmaker feels he no longer has enough of a role under pep guardiolabernardo silva wants to leave manchester city, writes duncan castles, as he no longer has the starring role he craves following the breakout of phil foden and brilliant return to top form of ilkay gundogan, not to mention the presence of other creative players such as raheem sterling, riyad mahrez and kevin de bruyne.
the portugal international is sure to draw plenty of interest, and atletico madrid and barcelona are already said to be checking in on his availability.
a deal with barcelona could potentially include ousmane dembele being sent to england as part of the return for bernardo.
copyright © 2021 goal (singapore) all rights reserved.
the information contained in goal (singapore) may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed without the prior written authority of goal (singapore)
cheers and applause quickly drowned out some boos as england players kneeled on sunday in an anti-racism gesture at kick-off against croatia in their euro 2020 opener at wembley.
london, england: cheers and applause quickly drowned out some boos as england players kneeled on sunday in an anti-racism gesture at kick-off against croatia in theireuro 2020 opener at wembley.
england players were shocked by jeering at the gesture from a minority of fans in two friendlies prior to the tournament.
manager gareth southgate, prime minister boris johnson and leading football figures had appealed for a stop to that.
once again, there was some jeering from a small section as players briefly went down on one knee, but many others among the 25,000 crowd in a sun-kissed wembley began applauding and cheering.
the gesture, borrowed from american nfl quarterback colin kaepernick and popularised by the black lives matter movement last year, has generated off-field controversy around europe in the build-up to the 24-nation euros.
critics view it as an unwanted politicization of sport and expression of sympathy with far-left politics.
but england players and other national teams also taking the knee say it is simply a show of solidarity against racial discrimination still prevalent in football and around the world.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

you can choose which categories you want to be notified for.
the chinese team dominated the event from game one.
for the second straight dota pro circuit, a dominant chinese team defeated evil geniuses in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd swept eg today to claim the weplay esports animajor title, $200,000, and 500 dpc points.
lgd battled through the group stage, earning a top seed and a spot in the upper bracket of the playoffs, where they defeated alliance, nigma, and t1 before ending their run with a 3-0 sweep of north america's top team.
congratulations @psgesports 🏆🏆you are the weplay animajor champions!
#weplayanimajor #animajor pic.
twitter.
com/71xs56vxz3eg, who also earned a spot in the playoffs through the group stage, tore through the lower bracket to reach the grand finals.
their run included ending noping e-sports, tnc predator, and nigma's chances at directly qualifying for the international 10, and beating both vici gaming and t1 to reach the animajor's summit.
despite being swept, eg kept things competitive in the final two games of the series after being blown out in game one.
the na team led for more than 40 minutes in game two but failed to close things out, losing the biggest fight of the series and dropping to 0-2.
"but what did it cost?""everything.
"after stealing the aegis, @evilgeniuses loses the fight against @psgesports and it costs them the game!
👾now, psg.
lgd leads the series 2-0.  will they be able to close it out on the next map?
🧐🧐#weplayanimajor #animajor pic.
twitter.
com/9vwyv7aww9lgd finished third at the one esports singapore major earlier this season, losing to eg in the upper bracket finals before being eliminated by the eventual tournament winners, invictus gaming.
eg fell just short of beating ig at the previous major and now take another second-place finish behind a top chinese squad.
both lgd and eg were already locked in as the top two seeds for ti10 prior to reaching the finals and will now prepare to battle for their share of more than $40 million in sweden starting on aug.  5.
© 2021 dot esports
the 27-year-old has scored 12 goals and registered 13 assists in 71 appearances for betis since joining the la liga outfit from lyon in 2019. there has been a host of speculation surrounding the attacker's future in recent weeks, with the green and whites seemingly facing a tough battle to keep hold of him this summer.
according to as, arsenal are in discussions with fekir's spanish club over a potential move, and the gunners have already submitted at least one offer for his services.
however, the report claims that betis are demanding a much higher fee and will not allow him to leave unless their asking price, which has not been specified, is met.
the frenchman was strongly linked with liverpool before leaving lyon for los verdiblancos.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
13 june 2021
holland's long awaited return to tournament football starts todayhaving failed to qualify for the last two major tournaments, the dutch return to the international big time this evening as they face the ukraine in amsterdam in this group c match up.
read on for your guide to watching a netherlands vs ukraine live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the match pits two legends of yesteryear on the playing field that are now plying their trade in the dug outs against each other, with legendary dutch defender frank de boer attempting to outwit former ac milan and chelsea striker andriy shevchenko.
date: sunday, june 13kick-off time: 9pm cet / 8pm bst / 3pm et / 12pm pt / 5am aest / 7am nzstvenue: johan cruyff arena, amsterdam, netherlandsfree live stream: itv hub (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freethe netherlands look in good shape coming into this tournament, with oranje's looking impressive in a 3-0 win over willy sagnol's georgia in their final warm-up game.
ukraine also looked in fine form in their last build-up match,  beating ten-man cyprus 4-0 on monday in a match that saw west ham united forward andriy yarmolenko score a brace, with man city midfielder oleksandr zinchenko also getting on the scoresheet.
read on for how to watch an netherlands vs ukraine live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with this match between netherlands v ukraine being shown live on itv1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, netherlands vs ukraine is being shown on itv1 (stv in scotland), with kick-off set for 8pm bst.
the build-up starts at 7.
10pm.
as it's itv, anyone located in the uk can tune in for free you'll be in possession of a valid uk tv licence, of course.
for added on-the-go viewing convenience, you can also live stream netherlands vs ukraine free by firing up itv hub, which has an excellent app that's available on nearly anything that plugs in these days just give it a search on your device, phone or console of choice.
not in the uk right now?
no worries just use a vpn to port yourself back home, then watch live as usual.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this group c match.
kick-off stateside is at 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream netherlands vs ukraine directly through the espn website.
how to watch netherlands vs ukraine without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 5am aest on monday morning.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
netherlands vs ukraine will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a netherlands vs ukraine live stream, with kick-off set for 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with netherlands vs ukraine set to start at 7am nzst on monday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
england manager gareth southgate may have just altered the course of the three lions' euro 2020 history.
no team have played in as many european championship games as england who are making their 10th finals appearance without ever reaching the final.
until last night's 1-0 win over croatia in their group d opener, the class of 2021 appeared destined to become the latest chapter of a seemingly never-ending hard luck story of self-defeatism.
but with a mix of bold choices and selection gambles, southgate might have changed that.
raheem sterling's 57th-minute strike, pouncing onto a through-ball from influential leeds united midfielder kalvin phillips, breathed new life into a flagging three lions team who had resolutely attempted to take the game to their ageing visitors in the first half.
the manchester city forward's inclusion in the starting line-up itself had already sparked consternation, with southgate lambasted before the game for choosing a player who had grown up in the shadow of wembley, ahead of jack grealish and jadon sancho.
yet, the england manager's gamble paid off handsomely as he ended an unflattering sequence of nine winless opening group salvos in the continent's flagship tournament.
he refused to bow to public pressure and persevered with a player whose track record of scoring for his country had produced a flawless return of 10 previous victories.
southgate can also claim vindication for favouring protectionism over panache with kieran trippier's rare deployment at left-back raising eyebrows and questions alike.
prior to staring down zlatko dalic's charges, he had played in the role on just four previous occasions, with the previous weekend's friendly win over austria the most recent.
having the inside knowledge to nullify atletico madrid teammate sime vrsaljko, operating on the right side of defence, saw trippier chosen over the in-form duo of luke shaw and ben chilwell.
hindsight suggests that southgate's boldness reaped a deserved reward as trippier rarely appeared troubled by croatia's three-pronged attack while right-back kyle walker recovered from a shaky first-half to shackle ivan perisic and josko gvardiol.
for a time, this maiden group d encounter was in danger of following a similar pattern for england.
as the clock ticked down towards the interval, phil foden's early effort that crashed against the base of dominik livakovic's right-hand post increasingly faded from memory with luka modric and mateo kovacic taking turns to wrest back control from their hosts.
once temperatures soared at england's national stadium, however, the black-shirted croatians wilted.
they struggled to contain the omnipotent threat posed by sterling, phillips as well as second-half substitutes marcus rashford and jude bellingham.
southgate's willingness to trust his instincts has further shifted the perception of the englishman, who has made the job his own these past 41⁄2 years.
before last night, no england manager had the presence of mind to field a starting line-up devoid of liverpool or manchester united players at a major tournament, since the euro 1992 clash against against france.
refusing to pander solely to representatives of the english premier league's traditional big six is an indication of southgate's willingness to place his hopes in the new brightest and best.
that should mean more minutes for the likes of phillips, aston villa's tyrone mings the first villan to start for england at the euros since southgate himself played against germany in 1996 and west ham united midfielder declan rice.
full-throated renditions of "football's coming home" at the final whistle may still be somewhat premature but england have never been in a stronger position to deliver.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen • denmark playmaker christian eriksen remained in hospital yesterday but is in a "stable" condition after collapsing during his country's euro 2020 group b game against finland on saturday, the danish football union (dbu) said.
"this morning, we have spoken to christian eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his team-mates.
his condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination," it tweeted.
the 29-year-old player suffered a cardiac arrest, the team doctor confirmed, but the reason remained unclear.
"he was gone; we did cardiac resuscitation, it was a cardiac arrest.
we got him back after one defib (defibrillation)," dr morten boesen told a news conference, adding that eriksen remained in hospital for further tests.
"the exams that have been done so far look fine.
we don't have an explanation to why it happened.
"the dbu also said that the team and staff had "received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident".
the news will have come as relief to eriksen's current and former teammates, many of whom wished him well.
the inter milan midfielder collapsed in the 43rd minute of denmark's euro 2020 opener, laying motionless on the pitch as medical personnel performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr).
captain simon kjaer reportedly helped to clear eriksen's airways first and started cpr before medics took over.
goalkeeper kasper schmeichel was seen consoling eriksen's wife sabrina kvist.
both players earned widespread praise as heroes.
the game was suspended temporarily but after receiving confirmation that eriksen was all right and in a stable condition and awake, uefa gave the danes an option to resume the game shortly or restart yesterday at noon local time.
1.  fabrice muambathe bolton man collapsed during an fa cup match in 2012 due to a cardiac arrest and was technically "dead" for 78 minutes before he was revived.
the former england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
2.  antonio puertathe sevilla midfielder collapsed during a spanish la liga match in 2007 and again in the dressing room.
he was rushed to hospital, where he died three days later of multiple organ failure due to cardiac arrest at the age of 22.
3.  marc-vivien foethe cameroon midfielder, 28, died during a confederations cup match in 2003.  medical staff failed to restart his heart on the pitch and he was pronounced dead.
reutersthe former tottenham star was said to have told his teammates to return to the field and denmark coach kasper hjulmand also insisted there was no pressure from uefa, but some felt the game should have been called off and rescheduled to a later date.
manchester united great peter, the danish custodian's father, told the bbc: "it's a ridiculous decision by uefa.
they should have tried to work out a different scenario and shown a little bit of compassion, and they didn't.
"when the game resumed, the atmosphere at parken stadium was considerably muted and the hosts appeared to be distracted, slipping to a 1-0 defeat courtesy of joel pohjanpalo's second-half winner.
the header was one that kasper would normally have saved as it was straight at him, while kjaer had to be taken off in the 63rd minutes as the defender was too "overwhelmed" to continue.
denmark's yussuf poulsen won a penalty when he went down under slight contact in the 73rd minute.
in the absence of usual spot-kick taker eriksen, pierre-emile hojbjerg assumed the responsibility but the midfielder could only hit his penalty straight at finland goalkeeper lukas hradecky and hjulmand later admitted that his players were "traumatised".
in the aftermath of the shocking event, conspiracy theories sprung up on the internet, suggesting that eriksen had previously contracted covid-19 and had been vaccinated.
but inter director giuseppe marotta dismissed those claims, saying there was no truth behind them, while eriksen's former cardiologist, dr sanjay sharma of st george's, university of london, added he had no heart issues during his seven-season spell at spurs.
the dbu yesterday called off a scheduled press conference while the team's next training session was postponed indefinitely, local broadcaster tv2 reported.
agence france-presse, reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
london: fabrice muamba has spoken about how watching christian eriksen receive life-saving treatment at euro 2020 brought back emotional memories of his own cardiac arrest as a doctor warned the dane was unlikely to play again.
eriksen received cpras his distraught teammates formed a circle around him to shield the stricken player from the view of 16,000 stunned fans in copenhagen on saturday.
the finns won 1-0 thanks to a joel pohjanpalo header in their first-ever appearance in the european championship but eriksen's plight overshadowed the match.
muamba, the former bolton midfielder who collapsed after suffering a cardiac arrest during a televised fa cup game in 2012, tweeted "please god" following the incident.
"to watch it from that distance and not knowing the expectation of what was going to happen -- it's scary," he told the bbc.
"it's credit to the medical staff that they've come in and they did an amazing job on christian.
"muamba said he was impressed by how eriksen's teammates had surrounded him to "protect the whole situation".
"it just brought back emotion that you've literally put down there for a long time that you don't want to re-live," he said.
"to see it on the other side, when it happened i asked my missus 'how did you even cope knowing this has happened to me'?
"i'm hoping that things turn out to be ok for him.
i really, really, really hope he comes through.
"cardiologist warninga sports cardiologist who previously worked with eriksen at tottenham said the midfielder, now at inter milan, was unlikely to play again.
"clearly something went terribly wrong," sanjay sharma, professor of sports cardiology at st george's, university of london, told the press association agency.
"but they managed to get him back.
the question is what happened?
and why did it happen?
"this guy had normal tests all the way up to 2019 so how do you explain this cardiac arrest?
"sharma, who chairs the football association's expert cardiac consensus group, said there were multiple reasons a cardiac arrest could have happened, such as high temperatures or an unidentified condition.
but he said reports after the match that eriksen, 29, was awake in hospital were "a very good sign".
"i'm very pleased," he said.
"the fact he's stable and awake, his outlook is going to be very good.
i don't know whether he'll ever play football again.
"without putting it too bluntly, he died today, albeit for a few minutes, but he did die and would the medical professional allow him to die again?
the answer is no.
"former tottenham player and manager glenn hoddle, who suffered a cardiac arrest while working for tv in 2018, tweeted: "thank god christian is ok.  and to those who did the cpr, it's simple, you saved his life as i know so well.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
12 june 2021
two tournament dark horses bring plenty of talent to euro 2020robert page's welsh side kick off their euro 2020 group a campaign this afternoon against switzerland as they look to emulate their superb last showing in a major tournament.
read on for your guide to watching a wales vs switzerland live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the welsh enjoyed an incredible run in france five years ago where they beat tournament favourites belgium before eventually being beaten by tournament winners portugal in the semi-final.
date: saturday, june 12kick-off time: 2pm bst / 3pm cet / 9am et / 6am pt / 11pm aest / 1am nzst (sun)venue: baku olympic stadium, baku, azerbaijanfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freewhile their warm-up preparations for euro 2020 haven't been ideal they were beaten by france, albeit with ten men and then failed to break down a battling albanian side in cardiff a team that possesses the attacking threat of gareth bale , and aaron ramsey should not be discounted.
the swiss come into this tournament in excellent form, having won their last six matches, the most recent victory an emphatic 7-0 thrashing of liechtenstein.
much of their hopes for this tournament may rest on striker haris seferovic who has been in sparkling form for benfica this season.
read on for how to watch an wales vs switzerland live stream for free today.
in the uk, this euro 2020 clash between wales and switzerland is being shown on bbc one along with welsh-language channel s4c.
coverage on both channels starts at 1.
15pm bst, with kick-off set to follow at 2pm bst.
you can also live stream both channel's coverage of wales vs switzerland for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this game.
kick-off stateside is at 9am et / 6am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream wales vs switzerland directly through the espn website.
how to watch wales vs switzerland without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 11pm aest.
an optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
wales vs switzerland will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a wales vs switzerland live stream, with kick-off set for 9am et / 6am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
kick off time for wales vs switzerland in new zealand is at a somewhat inconvenient 7am nzst on sunday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.

glenn price

@glennprice94


                                    xherdan shaqiri provided an assist as switzerland opened their euro 2020 campaign by drawing 1-1 with wales on saturday.
the liverpool attacker's corner was headed in by breel embolo early in the second half, before he was then withdrawn in the 66th minute.
but the group a encounter ended in a draw thanks to kieffer moore's equaliser, with harry wilson and neco williams both unused substitutes for wales.

you can choose which categories you want to be notified for.
the regional qualifiers are going to be stacked.
nigma remained the only team in the weplay esports animajor that had yet to receive an invite to the international 10, with a shot at qualifying for the dota 2 event if they finished in the top two at the event.
but they will now need to play in the regional qualifier after being eliminated 2-1 by evil geniuses today.
nigma, along with quincy crew and vici gaming were knocked out of the event, with nigma and qc tying for fifth, while vici finished in fourth.
because nigma were eliminated, the top 12 teams by dota pro circuit points have already been decided, ensuring thunder predator will be attending ti10 without competing in the regional qualifier.
ti 10 players #feelthethunder@valvesoftware @dota2 pic.
twitter.
com/a6fnasnp1ahere are all 12 teams that are locked in for a trip to the big stage in sweden this august.
the international 10 pro circuit qualifications.
#ti10 #dota2 pic.
twitter.
com/dwiajwodtain total, this means china will have five teams competing at ti10—the most of any region—after taking into account the regional qualifiers.
north america, south america, and europe will each have three teams, while cis and southeast asia will both get two.
some combination of eg, lgd, and t1 will make up the top three spots in the animajor standings, though eg should hold onto the top seed at ti10 regardless of who wins.
© 2021 dot esports
london: goran pandev scored north macedonia's first major tournament goal in their opening euro 2020 game against austria on sunday (jun 13), becoming the second-oldest scorer in european championship history.
pandev profited from a mix-up in the austrian defence to guide an easy finish into an unguarded net after 28 minutes, levelling the score at 1-1 after stefan lainer's volleyed opener.
at the age of 37 years and 321 days, pandev became the second-oldest player to score at the euros, behind austria's ivica vastic, who was 38 years and 257 days old when he netted against poland in 2008. north macedonia are competing in their first major tournament and pandev's goal came just over 20 years after his international debut on june 6, 2001. the genoa striker retired from international football in 2013 but was persuaded to return three years later.
he scored the goal that secured his country's qualification in a 1-0 uefa nations league playoff final against georgia in november.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
amsterdam (afp) denzel dumfries scored a dramatic late winner as the netherlands marked their long-awaited return to a major tournament with a 3-2 victory over ukraine in a remarkable euro 2020 game in amsterdam on sunday (june 13).
dumfries, the psv eindhoven full-back, headed in a cross from substitute nathan ake to complete a madcap second half after the home side eased into a two-goal lead and then threw it away.
captain georginio wijnaldum and wout weghorst both scored before the hour mark in front a raucous crowd at the johan cruyff arena, only for ukraine to silence the home supporters as andriy yarmolenko and roman yaremchuk netted to briefly restore parity.
frank de boer's side got there in the end and the victory will provide a major lift to the netherlands after what was their first game at a major competition in seven years.
they will now hope to build on it on thursday against austria, who beat north macedonia earlier in bucharest in the same group c. it was a brilliant game, and a crowd of around 16,000 created an atmosphere fit for the occasion at the home of ajax, where supporters held up banners with messages of support for christian eriksen following the denmark star's cardiac arrest on saturday.
eriksen made his name at ajax before moving to tottenham hotspur in 2013. after failing to qualify for euro 2016 or the 2018 world cup in russia, the netherlands were playing their first game at a major competition since beating hosts brazil 3-0 to claim third place at the 2014 world cup.
they had not won a game at a euro in almost exactly 13 years, since klaas-jan huntelaar and robin van persie netted in a 2-0 win over romania at euro 2008. the emergence of the likes of frenkie de jong and matthijs de ligt has given supporters of the oranje new hope for the future.
those supporters were in fine spirits ahead of the game, bedecked in orange as they filled the bars around the ground in the blazing sunshine, thoughts of the pandemic appearing far away.
yet dutch optimism has been tempered by selection problems facing coach de boer.
juventus defender de ligt watched this game from the stand as he recovers from a groin injury, his absence added to that of fellow centre-back star virgil van dijk who is absent from the tournament with the serious knee injury that cut short his season with liverpool.
manchester united's donny van de beek withdrew from the squad because of injury and first-choice goalkeeper jasper cillessen was left out altogether after testing positive for covid-19.
de boer has switched to a 3-5-2 formation and he has real stars in barcelona midfielder frenkie de jong as well as memphis depay up front.
the system has helped wijnaldum – who will join paris saint-germain from liverpool after the euro – develop into a real goal-scoring threat from midfield while dumfries was a constant threat down the right flank.
he should have scored late in the first half when he contrived to put a free header wide, after ukraine goalkeeper georgiy bushchan had produced a fine save to keep out a deflected wijnaldum volley.
the hosts got their reward shortly after the restart when bushchan turned a dangerous low ball into the box by dumfries out into the path of wijnaldum who fired home.
weghorst then lashed in a loose ball that came to him following more havoc wrought by dumfries, and the netherlands seemed to be on easy street.
maarten stekelenburg, at 38 the oldest player ever to represent the netherlands at a major tournament, had not had much to do but then he was beaten in the 75th minute by a brilliant curling strike from yarmolenko, the west ham united winger.
yaremchuk then headed in a ruslan malinovskyi free-kick and ukraine – whose build-up to the tournament was overshadowed by a row about patriotic slogans on their shirt which upset russia – looked set to leave with a draw, but then dumfries appeared.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

japantoday
higashi-azabu is bldg, 4f
					1-8-1 higashi-azabu
					minato-ku
					tokyo 106-0044
					japan
					tel: +81 3 5561 7755
					fax: +81 3 5561 7756
email: editor@japantoday.
com
©2021 gplusmedia inc. 
sections of fans at wembley stadium booed england players for taking a knee before the european championship game against croatia on sunday.
the boos, which could be heard over those fans applauding, came despite pleas from the team to respect the anti-racism gesture.
croatia's players did not take a knee as expected ahead of the group d game, which england won 1-0.
"everybody should cheer for england," british prime minister boris johnson said a short time later at the g7 summit, while not saying if he would take a knee if he was a player.
some england fans claim taking a knee is a political act but the english football association said again ahead of the team's opening euro 2020 match that the gesture is important to them and should be respected.
there had been booing at england's two warmup games for the tournament that were played in middlesbrough.
"they are doing this as a mechanism of peacefully protesting against discrimination, injustice and inequality," the fa said in a statement to fans.
"this is personally important to the players and the values the team collectively represents.
this gesture of unity and fighting against inequality can be traced back as far as the 18th century.
"it is not new, and english football has made it very clear that it does not view this as being aligned to a political organisation or ideology.
there can be no doubt as to why the players are taking the knee and what it represents in a footballing context.
"the jeering was by some fans who also chanted "no surrender" during the national anthem.
that's a dated reference to the conflict endured for generations that saw britain hit by terrorist attacks from the irish republic army.
croatia's national anthem was also booed by some of the 22,500 fans allowed into wembley, which could lead to the country's soccer association being fined by uefa.
100% online and fully accredited, level 7 qualification for board directors.
over six months, develop the skills to become a confident and truly effective board membercroatia's national anthem was also booed by some of the 22,500 fans allowed into wembleythat is generous.
i could hardly hear that anthem over the booing.
may have been the coverage though, and different at the match.
good on the england players for drawing attention to a cause that has meaning for them.
get politics out of sport.
just play the game.
the boos were drowned out by most of the fans applauding.
great match, england were great.
well they were booing because the knee taking means nothing.
i stand with wilfred zaha on that issue.
what do we expect with one of the most reactionary right-wing governments ever?they took the knee and sterling took the boot!ludditetoday  07:56 am jstthe boos were drowned out by most of the fans applauding.
yes, that's what i heard on my tv.
a timely reminder that the edl/bnp/ukip knuckle draggers are a small minority.
mickelicioustoday  08:29 am jstwhat do we expect with one of the most reactionary right-wing governments ever?every time this topic is raised with lying johnson i expect him to say, "gosh.
look, yes.
jolly good.
fine people on both sides.
certainly.
i think.
"ludditetoday  07:56 am jstgreat match, england were great.
there were indeed.
raheem awoke from his lengthy slumber to score the winner, kalvin philips bossed the midfield, mount was terrific and the stockport iniesta hit the post.
even pickford looked comfortable!
the scotland game should be a cracker.
good for the players supporting efforts to stop racism.
the irony is, it was a black man sterling who won the game for england.
i bet a lot of the thousands of racist scum who were booing, cheered when that black man scored.
hypocrites.
get politics out of sport.
just play the game.
i agree with this.
let's get politics out of work in general, unless of course our work is concerned with politics.
let's be professionals.
what do we expect with one of the most reactionary right-wing governments ever?feed working class fans a diet of chip butties, larger and late night curries, what do you expect?that is generous.
i could hardly hear that anthem over the booing.
england fans have been booing the opponent's national anthem for as long as i can remember despite calls from almost every england manager for them to stop.
i can think of no nation that does it.
it's pretty shameful, some basic respect should be shown, even when we play the argies.
i also think it must give the other team a bit of a lift, makes them eager to shut us up.
use your facebook account to login or register with japantoday.
by doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
100% online and fully accredited, level 7 qualification for board directors.
over six months, develop the skills to become a confident and truly effective board membera mix of what's trending on our other sites
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot blog				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot travel				
					gaijinpot travel
england manager gareth southgate's selection of raheem sterling paid off with the manchester city forward scoring in their 1-0 win over croatia in last night's euro 2020 group d opener at wembley.
"i'm so pleased for raheem.
he was dangerous all game.
his goalscoring record suggests we should have faith in him and i think he was motivated to show that," southgate said.
sterling, who grew up in the shadow of wembley, said he knew he would break his duck for england in major tournaments when given the chance to play at the national stadium.
"i always said if i played at wembley in a major tournament, i'm scoring.
i had to score in my back garden and delighted to do that," said sterling.
his strike ensured england won their opening game at a european championship for the first time in 10 attempts.
the 26-year-old's place had been under threat from jack grealish and marcus rashford after a disappointing end to the season with manchester city.
with liverpool defensive midfielder jordan henderson still not match fit, southgate opted for leeds united's kalvin phillips, who helped to stifle the croats and provided the pass for sterling's goal.
"phillips is a player who is so understated.
.
.
i thought he was immense throughout the game," said southgate.
england next face scotland on saturday morning (singapore time), with croatia meeting the czech republic.
afpget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
nabil fekir will set suitors arsenal back 'a lot of money' this summer, according to real betis sporting director antonio cordon.
fekir has long been linked with a move to north london and they seem undeterred by his underwhelming production in recent times.
during the 2017/2018 season the attacking midfielder was electric for lyon, registering 18 goals and seven assists, form that attracted strong interest from liverpool.
however, over the past two seasons he has managed just 12 la liga goals for betis.
but while his productivity has waned, the club still consider him one of their most important players.
according to as, manuel pellegrini views fekir as someone he wants to build his attack around next season.
his importance has also been espoused by betis' sporting director.
asked about the interest in fekir, cordon said: "in no club in the world is there is a non-transferable player.
for us, it is a cornerstone to have him and keep him, if someone wants to come for him, they will have to pay a lot of money.
"cristiano ronaldo's agents have reached out to man utd, psg and real madrid to discuss the likelihood of a transfer away from juventus this summer.
antonio conte has suggested he turned down the chance to become tottenham manager because he was not convinced by their long-term project.
remembering antonio conte's overhead kick in italy's 2-1 win over turkey at euro 2000. sergio ramos wants to sign a one-year contract at real madrid but may not be offered it after clashing with president florentino perez.
finances are not the only roadblock for a potential deal either; it is thought that fekir has no desire to leave betis during the upcoming transfer window.
the news is a blow to arsenal, who have earmarked him as martin odegaard's successor.
the norwegian arrived on loan from real madrid in january but that deal has now expired.
the gunners had wanted to make the deal permanent but the transfer seems unlikely.
the summer could be a busy one for arsenal.
not only are they looking to strengthen following a poor season, they also want to trim the squad.
hector bellerin and alexandre lacazette have both been linked with exits while granit xhaka's departure to jose mourinho's roma is imminent.
â© 2021 minute media all rights reserved
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
13 june 2021
group c clash could go either wayit may not be the first game on every euro 2020's wish list, but this group c match holds the intrigue of seeing two teams looking to register their nations' first ever european championship victory.
read on for your guide to watching a austria vs north macedonia live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
date: sunday, june 13kick-off time: 6pm cet / 5pm bst / 12pm et / 9am pt / 2am aest / 4am nzstvenue: the arena nationala, bucharest, romaniafree live stream: itv hub (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freenorth macedonia booked their debut appearance in the tournament via a uefa nations league playoff final win over georgia last november.
igor angelovski's side stand as outsiders for making it past the group stage, but are capable of a surprise, as demonstrated by their shock victory over germany back in march.
austria have failed to win a single match in their two previous appearances in the european championships, having failed to live up to their billing of dark horses five years ago.
with the big name attacking threat of marko arnautovic, sasa kalajdzic and recent real madrid signing david alaba, they should have enough here to claim their long awaited first victory.
read on for how to watch an austria vs north macedonia live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with this match between austria and north macedonia being shown live on itv1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, austria vs north macedonia is being shown on itv1 (stv in scotland), with kick-off set for 5pm bst.
the build-up starts at 4.
15pm.
as it's itv, anyone located in the uk can tune in for free you'll be in possession of a valid uk tv license, of course.
for added on-the-go viewing convenience, you can also live stream austria vs north macedonia free by firing up itv hub, which has an excellent app that's available on nearly anything that plugs in these days just give it a search on your device, phone or console of choice.
not in the uk right now?
no worries just use a vpn to port yourself back home, then watch live as usual.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this group c match.
kick-off stateside is at 12pm et / 9am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream austria vs north macedonia directly through the espn website.
how to watch austria vs north macedonia without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 2am aest.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
austria vs north macedonia will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a austria vs north macedonia live stream, with kick-off set for 12pm et / 9am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with austria vs north macedonia set to start at 4am nzst on monday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
london: raheem sterling finally found his tournament touch when his 61st-minute goal gave england a deserved 1-0 win over croatia at wembley on sunday (jun 13) as they began a european championship with a victory for the first time in nine attempts.
sterling, something of a surprise starter after a flat end to the domestic season but a favourite of manager gareth southgate, slid home after great work by kalvin phillips to end an individual drought that had run through england's three previous major tournaments.
"it feels good.
i grew up two minutes down the road, so i knew i had to score here, and it was a great feeling to do it," said the wembley-raised forward.
southgate said he was unaware of england's previous run of opening-game failures despite having played in one of them in 1996 but, as expected, was not getting carried away by a solid but unexceptional display.
"it's for everybody else to get excited and throw their beer around and do whatever they want," he said.
"it's brilliant to give that joy to people.
but for us, it's on to the next one and preparing for a really tough game on friday (against scotland).
"but i was really pleased with the way we settled so quickly.
big occasion, sweltering hot day, every reason to look nervous at the start, but we didn't.
with and without the ball, we were composed.
although it was always going to be a game of few clear chances, we looked the bigger threat throughout.
"the game lacked the jeopardy of the teams' 2018 world cup semi-final, won by croatia, and losing on sunday was no disaster for them given the way the draw pans out, but it was a morale-boosting victory for england as they set off once again in search of their first title since 1966. pace flaggedroared on by a noisy 22,500 crowd a quarter of wembley's capacity they started full of bright intentions and put huge pressure on the visitors.
phil foden, his bleached hair channelling paul gascoigne from euro 96, almost gave them a dream start when he cut in from the right and curled a low shot against a post.
phillips, impressive all afternoon, then had a 25-yard shot blocked but, instead of riding the early momentum, england lost their way and, with the sun beating down, the pace and energy seeped out of the game either side of the break.
england eventually shook themselves out of the torpor and struck when phillips drove through the retreating defence, rode two tackles and played the ball expertly into the path of the darting sterling who, under pressure, just got enough on the ball to steer it home.
sterling had looked lively all day and celebrated his first major tournament goal with gusto, though he should have added a second 13 minutes later but blazed wildly over the bar.
another bright spot for england was the introduction of substitute jude bellingham who, at 17 years and 349 days, became the youngest player to appear in the european championship finals.
croatia also threw on their attacking subs as they tried to show a bit more ambition but though england's defence looked a little shaky at times there were few chances for an equalizer as, conversely to england, they lost their opening euro match for the first time in their six tournaments.
"we didn't do enough up front and couldn't engineer our trademark fast-flowing moves, but i am optimistic that we'll improve and get it right in the next two games," said coach zlatko dalic.
they are against scotland and the czech republic, who meet on monday, with croatia playing the czechs in glasgow on friday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 08:00												writer: 
															reutersst petersburg: romelu lukaku struck twice as belgium confirmed their status as one of the favourites for euro 2020 with a confident 3-0 victory over russia on saturday.
despite being without key performer kevin de bruyne, world number one ranked belgium were rarely in trouble against a russia side that struggled to impose themselves.
roberto martinez's belgium top group b on three points, ahead on goal difference of finland who beat denmark in the group's other game in copenhagen.
the red devils are unbeaten in 10 games in all competitions and have suffered just one defeat in their last 24 outings.
they have also scored in each of their last 31 games.
the visitor's grabbed the lead in the 10th minute when andrei semyonov failed to deal with a ball into the box from leander dendoncker, and lukaku turned and fired into the bottom corner.
lukaku celebrated his goal by running to the television camera and shouting "chris, chris, i love you" in tribute to christian eriksen, the danish midfielder and his club team-mate at inter milan, who had been rushed to hospital after collapsing during the earlier game in the group.
belgium were calm in possession and finding plenty of time and space against a russia side who struggled to get a firm grip on the game.
the russians reached the quarter-finals in the world cup they hosted in 2018 but the energy of those performances was missing, despite playing at home in front of more than 26,000 fans.
stanislav cherchesov struggled to find either the tempo to their attacks or a way to provide quality service to striker artem dzyuba who was too often left isolated.
it was no surprise when the second goal came, in the 34th minute, when russia keeper anton shunin could only parry thorgan hazard's shot towards thomas meunier, who made no mistake.
russia applied some pressure after the interval but the beligans coped without too much panic and the game already felt decided before lukaku wrapped up the win with a well-taken effort after racing on to a through ball from meunier.
lukaku said the eriksen situation had left him in tears before the game.
"i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spent more time with him than with my family," he said.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family," he added.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with christian.
i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him," added the former manchester united striker.
cherchesov conceded his team had struggled after falling behind to lukaku's opener.
"our tournament is continuing.
we are doing our job.
we chose our system, it worked partly but then started to break down.
the belgians scored and then it was difficult to get the ball off them.
"the russians host finland on wednesday and will need to quickly get their campaign on track.
"we will get out of the situation.
we put ourselves there, so we must now get out of it," cherchesov added.
lukaku and the belgian team had taken the knee before the kick-off but the anti-racist gesture was met with jeers and whistles from the crowd.
phuket: a hospital ambulance crashed off the road during a storm in the small hours of monday in muang district.
the driver and two nurses escaped with only minor injuries.
ayutthaya: eighteen employees of phra nakhon si ayutthaya hospital were found to be infected with covid-19 but the situation was under control and it remains open, hospital director chokchai leetho-chawalit said.
wellington: polynesian seafarers likely reached antarctica hundreds of years before the western explorers usually credited with discovering the frozen continent, a new study has concluded.
date published: saturday 12th june 2021 10:14               samuel bannister denmark manager kasper hjulmand said he could not praise his players enough after they showed unity in the wake of the crisis of the christian eriksen situation in their euro 2020 opener.
eriksen collapsed towards the end of the the first half of their match against finland and required cpr.
the game was suspended as the medics attended to the 29-year-old.
more than an hour later, they resumed play after their teammate awoke and was taken to hospital.
what followed on the pitch was of little significance on an emotional evening.
denmark lost 1-0 as finland won their first ever major tournament match.
the important thing for everyone involved though was knowing eriksen's condition, which was described as stabilising upon his admission to hospital.
hjulmand was in tears at his post-match press conference as he reflected on a day that left the football world in shock.
"first of all, if it gets emotional, it's been a tough night," said hjulmand.
"we are all reminded of what the most important thing in life is – to have valuable relationships, people we're close to, our family and our friends.
"we have a group of players that i cannot praise enough.
i couldn't be prouder of those people who took such good care of each other.
"he is one of my very dear friends.
the way the players talked in the dressing room to decide to not do anything before we knew christian was conscious and ok. "give our social media channels a follow – we're on facebook, twitter and instagramthe circumstances were tough for eriksen's teammates.
but according to uefa, both teams requested to complete the game after they knew eriksen was in a stable condition.
hjulmand shed light on the situation behind play resuming.
"we had two options to play the game [today] or tomorrow at 12pm and everyone agreed to play today," he said.
"you can't play a game with such feelings.
"we tried to win.
it was incredible they managed to go out and try to play the second half.
"honestly, there were players out there that were completely done.
emotionally done and emotionally exhausted. "
rome: italy capped a perfect night in the stadio olimpico witha euro 2020 opening win over turkeybut coach roberto mancini warned that the road was long between rome and wembley.
a 28-match unbeaten run has put mancini two games short of italy's two-time world cup winning coach vittorio pozzo's record of 30 unbeaten games between 1935 and 1939.
"we still have six games ahead of us.
it's a long way," said the 56-year-old former manchester city manager who took over in 2018 after italy failed to qualify for the world cup that year.
amid the euphoria veteran defender leonardo bonucci called for "cool heads, humility and a down to earth" approach while maintaining "hearts of fire".
in front of 16,000 fans, and preceded by a glittering opening ceremony, the spark was lit for a run which mancini hopes will end with a second european title after 1968 in london on jul 11. italy have the advantage of playing their group a matches at home and next meet switzerland in rome on wednesday followed by wales four days later.
for lazio forward ciro immobile, the group games at home are "pure adrenaline" as the 31-year-old scored his first international goal in his club stadium.
merih demiral's own goal got the ball rolling in the second half before immobile and lorenzo insigne completed the victory.
"we did what we had to do, it was our duty to win the first game on front of our fans," said immobile, who has scored four goals in the last five matches.
"spine-chilling"mancini's front-line trio of immobile, lorenzo insigne and domenico berardi proved efficient for an italy who are without a stand-out star striker.
italy missed out on the 2018 world cup, and the "azzurri" had not hosted an international match since the 1990 world cup.
tenor andrea bocelli's rousing performance to nessun dorma, popularised during that world tournament, set the tone for the night.
"there was an incredible emotion before the match, it was spine-chilling," said roma midfielder leonardo spinazzola, uefa's man-of-the-match after his performance in his club stadium.
"then it was a perfect match, zero goals conceded and we played great football.
"we have a strong team, an incredible mix of strength and technique.
"berardi had a role in all three goals against turkey, and has scored five goals in his last seven games for italy.
"our secret is the group," said napoli's insigne.
"no one's place is guaranteed, those who play know what to do and we put ourselves at the service of each other.
"veteran coach claudio ranieri praised mancini's style which has proved so successful in reviving the four-time world champions.
"what lucidity mancio has, he knows how to manage emotions," ranieri wrote in la gazzetta dello sport on saturday.
"the first game is always the most dangerous, there is the pressure of the debut, the desire to overdo it can sometimes lead you to make mistakes, but roberto mancini was really good.
"he managed emotions, the tactical plan, the most delicate moments of the match with clarity.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
st petersburg: belgium eased to a comfortable 3-0 victory over russia on saturday (jun 12) with two goals from romelu lukaku and one from thomas meunier to confirm their status among the european championship favourites.
the belgians, top of the fifa rankings, went ahead after only 10 minutes through lukaku and doubled the score before the break through meunier.
lukaku scored his second of the night two minutes from the end extending his record tally for his country to 62 goals.
belgium's obvious superiority was evident throughout the group b encounter in st petersburg, and victory for roberto martinez's team came without kevin de bruyne, out with injury, and only a cameo substitute appearance from captain eden hazard, another of the team's talismans.
belgium go to the top of the group standings, ahead on goal difference from finland, who upset denmark 1-0 in copenhagen earlier on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
wales 1switzerland 1baku • striker kieffer moore is enjoying the "big occasion" after heading in an equaliser, as wales snatched a 1-1 draw against wasteful switzerland in their euro 2020 group a clash at the baku olympic stadium yesterday.
moore, who had a first-half opportunity expertly saved by swiss goalkeeper yann sommer, guided the ball into the net on 74 minutes from a joe morrell delivery as he ghosted into space left by the static swiss defence.
"it's great personally, but it's a good start for us.
we would have liked to have won, but a draw from the first game puts us in a good position," said moore on the bbc.
"it's never good going a goal down, but to get one back and see the game out is a big positive for us.
it was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
"i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
"breel embolo had terrorised the welsh defence and put switzerland ahead when he showed impressive strength to outmuscle defender connor roberts from a corner shortly after half-time.
they also had a late goal by mario gavranovic correctly ruled out by the var (video assistant referee) for offside.
the swiss may blame themselves for not killing off the game earlier, having squandered several golden chances through haris seferovic in the first half and embolo after the break.
defender fabian schar had tried to beat goalkeeper danny ward with a cheeky flick before seferovic's 27th-minute curled shot sailed just over the bar.
the forward squandered two more chances before half-time as the swiss notched 11 attempts to wales' two in the first half.
what his teammates failed to achieve with finesse in the first half, embolo did with sheer power and speed in the 49th minute, heading in from a corner for a deserved lead after his powerful run and shot was saved by ward seconds earlier.
"we knew switzerland would have a lot of the ball and that we'd have to be solid and organised defensively," said wales' caretaker boss rob page told the bbc.
"we wanted a positive start and it feels like a win in the changing room.
i'm so proud of the players for digging so deep.
"with captain gareth bale well-marked throughout, they gradually upped the pressure in search of an equaliser as the swiss eased off and conceded some ground, and moore found the space to beat sommer with a glancing header.
"i feel a bit of frustration with the result, as we had the chances for the second goal but didn't take them," embolo said on uefa.
com.
"perhaps we were too passive after the first goal.
we deserved the win, but it turned out to be a draw and that's a pity.
"we have to take the positives, rest, focus on the next game and bring the good things from this match into the next.
"italy lead the group after their impressive 3-0 victory over turkey in the tournament opener on friday and will host the swiss in rome in their second game on wednesday.
wales stay in the azerbaijan capital to face the turks on the same day.
reutersit was tough in the heat, but it's what we expect in a hot climate being here for a week now.
i'm enjoying it.
it's a big occasion.
i'm loving every second of it.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
belgium eased to a 3-0 win over russia in their euro 2020 opener on sunday morning (june 13, singapore time), but considered the victory a footnote after the frightening collapse of denmark playmaker christian eriksen, a long-time teammate and friend of several belgian players.
eriksen, 29, was earlier rushed to hospital after collapsing during the match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch, with football officials later saying the player was stable and awake much to the relief of teammates and fans.
"there were many tears before the match (against russia).
it was very hard for me to focus," striker romelu lukaku, who plays with eriksen at italian champions inter milan, told belgian tv.
"it was very hard for me, for (eriksen's former tottenham hotspur teammates) toby (alderweireld), for jan (vertonghen), for nacer (chadli).
we know him very well.
"i am happy with our victory, but our thoughts are with christian.
i just hope he gets well soon.
his children need him, we need him.
"lukaku had already paid tribute to his clubmate during the match, after scoring the first of his two goals, calling out "chris, stay strong, mate, love you", to a television camera.
defender alderweireld, who played with eriksen for years at ajax amsterdam and then spurs, said the team heard the news during their final preparations in their hotel.
"a few of us consider eriksen a friend.
nobody was thinking about our match at all", he said.
belgium coach roberto martinez said his team had given a solid performance, despite failing to score more goals in a tepid second half.
"there were many positive aspects, especially to keep a clean sheet, he said.
"it's very important to be able to defend with the ball, to impose ourselves so we can hurt the opposition.
we did that.
we could have scored a few more, but it was very important to keep a clean sheet.
"on the downside, martinez said euro 2020 was already over for leicester city defender timothy castagne, who left the game in the first half with a broken eye socket after a clash of heads with daler kuzyayev.
"he will probably need surgery, he will be out of the euros", he added.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
baku: a header from towering kieffer moore claimed a point for wales in a 1-1 draw with switzerland in baku on saturday (jun 12) to start both teams' euro 2020 campaigns.
moore responded to breel embolo's second-half opener with a quarter of an hour remaining.
both sides trail group a leaders italy, who beat turkey 3-0 in friday's tournament curtain-raiser.
wales coach robert page named gareth bale on the left wing as the real madrid attacker was one of three wales survivors in the starting line-up from the 2016 semi-final loss to portugal.
switzerland boss vladimir petkovic kept benfica's haris seferovic and borussia moenchengladbach's breel embolo up front despite mario gavranovic scoring four times in two pre-tournament friendlies.
with petkovic naming a narrow back three, bale and fellow winger dan james found space out wide early on in front of an estimated 10,000 crowd as local authorities allowed up to 50-percent capacity in the 69,000-seater olympic stadium.
after a quarter of an hour played, james broke free down the left before finding 1.
95 metre-tall moore who forced swiss goalkeeper yann sommer to tip the ball over the bar.
from the resulting corner, moore rose highest again and clashed in the air with manuel akanji, which left the cardiff forward playing the remainder of the game with red tape around his head.
with moore bandaged, the momentum swung towards petkovic's side and they dominated the remainder of the half but seferovic wasted three chances.
moore returned after the interval despite completing just one of his team's 101 passes in the first half.
petkovic's switzerland, who reached the last 16 five years ago, remained in control with captain granit xhaka, liverpool's xherdan shaqiri and atalanta's remo freuler dominating midfield.
embolo sparks to lifethey broke the deadlock four minutes into the second half as embolo sparked into life after a quiet opening 45 minutes.
he broke down the middle and forced danny ward into a save, which gave shaqiri a corner on the right flank.
he delivered to embolo who headed home after beating wales right-back connor roberts with ease for just his sixth goal in 44 international appearances.
shaqiri, who played just 14 premier league games for liverpool last season, was substituted on 66 minutes for the more defensive denis zakaria.
despite petkovic's pragmatic change in personnel, wales equalised with 16 minutes remaining.
manchester united's james played a corner short which ended up at joe morrell's feet and he crossed into the box.
moore lost his marker and headed a well-placed effort passed the out-stretched sommer to send the roughly 300 travelling wales fans into a frenzy behind the opposite goal.
james was then replaced by david brooks as both sides searched for a winner.
seferovic was substituted for 31-year-old gavranovic on 84 minutes and the dinamo zagreb forward thought he had claimed all three points for his side with his first touch.
after edging past the wales backline he beat ward but his effort was chalked off for offside by var.
switzerland pressed on in five minutes of injury time and gavranovic was denied another potential winner, this time ward saving with his finger tips.
ramsey left the field for ethan ampadu during time added on and page's men held on for a point.
wales stay in baku for their next game when they face turkey on wednesday, with switzerland taking on italy in rome later that day.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:46 am myt

belgium's romelu lukaku celebrates scoring their third goal against russia at the gazprom arena, saint petersburg june 12, 2021.
— reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
saint petersburg, june 13 — belgium striker romelu lukaku sent a message of support to his stricken inter milan team-mate christian eriksen after scoring, as his double helped the red devils open their euro 2020 campaign with a 3-0 win over russia on saturday.
lukaku gave belgium an early lead in saint petersburg, then shouted "chris, chris, stay strong — i love you" into a pitchside camera during the celebration for his opening goal.
his club team-mate eriksen is recovering in hospital in copenhagen after collapsing on the pitch during extraordinary scenes which overshadowed denmark's 1-0 home defeat by finland in saturday's earlier group b game.
substitute thomas meunier doubled belgium's lead on 34 minutes before lukaku put the result beyond doubt with a late second goal.
belgium, the world's top-ranked team, are under pressure to deliver at the european championship as some pundits claim this is roberto martinez's last chance to win a title with an ageing squad.
yet even with manchester city playmaker kevin de bruyne and borussia dortmund midfielder axel witsel sidelined by injury, belgium were too strong for russia.
the hosts got off to a bad start when andrei semenov failed to deal with a cross by dries mertens in the build-up to the opening goal.
the ball fell to lukaku, who span away and drove his shot into the bottom far corner on 10 minutes.
belgium's timothy castagne and russia's daler kuzyaev had to be helped off following a nasty clash of heads which saw both players substituted.
meunier, castagne's replacement at right-back, grabbed belgium's second by slotting home the rebound after his dortmund team-mate thorgan hazard swung in a cross which anton shunin failed to hold.
it stayed 2-0 at the break, but russia raised the tempo in the second half as roman zobnin fired over the belgian goal.
real madrid star eden hazard replaced mertens for the final 18 minutes to lift the belgian attack.
with two minutes left, lukaku swept meunier's pass into the russian net to claim his 20th goal in his last 15 international games.
before kick-off, the belgium team were booed for taking a knee to highlight racial injustice, while their russian opponents stood.
jeers echoed around the krestovsky stadium as the entire belgian team, as well as spanish referee antonio mateu lahoz, knelt, while lukaku, whose parents come from the democratic republic of congo, raised his right fist.
england have said they will do the same for their opening game of the european championship against croatia on sunday.
ex-nfl quarterback colin kaepernick started kneeling to protest against racial injustice in 2016. the gesture has become a familiar sight across a range of sports since george floyd, who was black, was killed by a white police officer in the united states last year.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
home  all the news  belgium 3-0 russia: lukaku brace seals red devils windate published: saturday 12th june 2021 10:02                 news desk belgium started euro 2020 with a 3-0 win over russia with romelu lukaku dedicating the first of two goals to inter milan team-mate christian eriksen.
the group b fixture had appeared in doubt when the other match in the group between denmark and finland – taking place two hours earlier – was suspended after eriksen collapsed in the first half.
a lengthy delay occurred but after the inter playmaker was able to regain consciousness and was taken to hospital, where he is in a stable position, the first match in the group resumed and belgium were able to take on russia, which ended in a routine victory for roberto martinez's men.
semi-finalists at the world cup in russia three years ago, belgium went top of the group thanks to a brace by lukaku that sandwiched thomas meunier's goal.
26 – romelu lukaku has been directly involved in 26 goals in his last 19 appearances for belgium in all competitions, scoring 22 and assisting four.
phenomenal.
#euro2020 #bel #rus pic.
twitter.
com/eukrmlzzav— optajoe (@optajoe) june 12, 2021eden hazard was left on the bench in st petersburg and there was an unsavoury start when the belgium players were booed as they took the knee before kick-off.
lukaku was able to respond in the perfect fashion after 10 minutes when he put the number one ranked team in the world ahead.
dries mertens' cross was not dealt with by andrey semenov and former everton and manchester united striker lukaku fired the ball in with his left foot before he grabbed the pitchside camera saying, "chris, i love you" in a message to team-mate eriksen.
a nasty clash of heads between timothy castagne and daler kuzyaev resulted in both being substituted midway through the first half and it was the former's replacement who made it 2-0. thorgan hazard's ball into the area was pushed out into a dangerous position by russia goalkeeper anton shunin and substitute meunier slotted home from 10 yards.
it had not been a good half for stanislav cherchesov's team and he was forced into another change when former chelsea player yuri zhirkov limped off before the break.
russia came out with more intent after the interval but despite using all five of their substitutions by the 63rd minute, including taking off kuzyaev's replacement denis chershev, thibaut courtois remained largely untroubled in the belgian goal.
captain eden hazard was able to play the final 18 minutes and there was time for the goalscorers to combine for a third.
meunier played lukaku through on goal and he drilled the ball low into the corner for his second of the night to ensure one of the favourites started on a positive note.
it took a long time for jordan henderson to be appreciated at liverpool.
the wait goes on with england.
finland's first ever tournament win was overshadowed by eriksen's collapse.
he is thankfully in a stable condition.
none of those players or officials should have been asked to play on so soon after fearing for christian eriksen's life.
.
.
uefa have announced belgium versus russia will go ahead despite worrying scenes in the other group b tie.
follow it here.
.
.
wales kept their qualification hopes alive by avoiding defeat to switzerland in their opening game.
robert page said the draw with switzerland 'felt like a win'.
a passive point might not look so good later in the group.
.
.
any man who can mellow roy keane while bringing some much-needed sunshine into all our lives is alright by johnny.
.
.
no longer is the english game "all about heart".
foden is king of a new breed that would suit other countries.
arsenal want a fairly young deep-lying playmaker with premier league experience to replace xhaka.
righto.
with added buendia, brentford, norwich and watford.
would you back anyone but chelsea and city to go again this summer?
it took a long time for jordan henderson to be appreciated at liverpool.
the wait goes on with england.
update your browser to view this website correctly.
update my browser now×
we use cookies and other tracking technologies to improve your browsing experience on our site, show personalized content and targeted ads, analyze site traffic, and understand where our audiences come from.
to learn more or opt-out, read our cookie policy.
please also read our privacy notice and terms of use, which became effective december 20, 2019. by choosing i accept, you consent to our use of cookies and other tracking technologies.
filed under:the liverpool player delivered a great corner kick that was headed home by breel embolo.
harry wilson and neco williams were unused substitutes for wales.
the eufa euro 2020 tournament (being played in 2021) is finally in full swing, with saturday being the first full day of matches.
there was a large contingent of liverpool players suiting up for their national teams in the first match of the day as switzerland took on wales.
xherdan shaqiri started for switzerland, while harry wilson and neco williams were both named to the bench for wales.
shaqiri played in the hole behind haris sefervic and breel embolo.
the vertically challenged dynamo was a creative spark for his side, leading the team with four key passes, including an assist for switzerland's only goal on the day.
shaqiri delivered a driven corner kick that was headed home by embolo.
shaqiri assist, embolo goal, #sui 1-0 up pic.
twitter.
com/bqq48mgomlshaqiri was subbed off in the 66th minute with his team leading 1-0.  it was a good showing for the player who is likely auditioning for a transfer.
wales, for their part, would manage to claw a goal back in the 74th minute to earn a 1-1 draw.
both harry wilson and neco williams were unused substitutes.
in the next round of group a, wales will take on turkey in baku, while switzerland will have the difficult task of trying to get points off of italy in rome.
copenhagen: denmark star christian eriksen was awake in hospital, the danish football union said on saturday, after he collapsed on the pitch during the euro 2020 game against finland in copenhagen.
"christian eriksen is awake and is undergoing further tests" at the hospital, the danish federation said on twitter, after the player was carried off the field having received cpr by medical personnel.
a reuters photographer at the game saw eriksen raise his hand as he was carried from the pitch on a stretcher.
eriksen collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline.
teammates martin braithwaite and thomas delaney rushed to assist him, with delaney beckoning furiously for medical assistance.
the midfielder's teammates formed a ring around him as medics pumped his chest just before halftime in their group b clash with the finns.
both teams subsequently left the field with officials holding up sheets to hide the stricken player from view.
"the uefa euro 2020 match in copenhagen has been suspended due to a medical emergency," uefa said in a short statement.
about half an hour later, the organisation tweeted that eriksen "has been transferred to the hospital and has been stabilised".
"a crisis meeting has taken place with both teams and match officials," it added.
the match restarted at 2.
30am singapore time.
uefa said that it had agreed to restart the match "following the request made by players of both teams".
finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
eriksen was later able to speak to his teammates.
"we've been in contact with him, and the players have spoken to christian.
that's the great news.
he's doing fine, and they are playing the game for him," dbu director peter moeller told danish television.
eriksen was voted man of the match in a gesture of support.
"moments like this put everything in life into perspective," said uefa president aleksander ceferin.
the previously raucous crowd at the parken stadium in the danish capital fell silent after the 29-year-old fell to the ground near the end of the opening period, with his teammates gathering around him.
team doctor morten boesen said at the press conference that eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage on the pitch.
after around 15 minutes eriksen was stretchered off the field followed by the rest of the denmark team, while finland's players also left the pitch.
the fans in the stadium, who were celebrating the chance to see their national team again live at the stadium, sat silently in their seats waiting for news of eriksen's condition to filter through.
however soon after stadium-wide chants of "christian" and "eriksen" from both sets of supporters began to ring out as his status began to filter through to supporters.
they were brought to their feet when stadium announcers said that eriksen was "stable".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
denmark's christian eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch after collapsing on saturday in his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland but was able to speak before being taken to hospital, team doctor morten boesen said.
eriksen was surrounded by his teammates while being treated on the pitch and then stretchered away.
the game was eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later after news came through that he had regained consciousness.
"we were called onto the field when christian collapsed.
he was lying on his side when we approached him and there was respiration and pulse," boesen told a news conference after the game, which finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
"but that picture changed and he then received life-saving cardiac massage.
we quickly got help from the stadium doctor and we got christian back," he said.
"christian spoke to me before he was taken to the hospital," said boesen.
denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players had been too overwhelmed by the incident to finish the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand said at the news conference.
players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday, hjulmand said, adding there had been no pressure from uefa to finish the match on saturday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer who plays for milan in italy, were too upset to finish the game, he said.
"simon kjaer was deeply, deeply touched.
he was in doubt whether he could continue and gave it a shot, but ultimately he couldn't.
i completely understand that," hjulmand said.
a hush fell over the crowd of 16,000 fans while eriksen received treatment on the pitch, and outside bars around central copenhagen people gathered, many in tears, while the player's condition remained unclear.
hjulmand said the players came together in the dressing room, supporting each other and allowing themselves to show their emotions.
"i cannot be more proud of this group of people who take such good care of each other at this time, when a loved one is fighting for his life," he said.
"it was a very tough night and we were all reminded what's the most important in life. "
singapore: singapore fell to a third straight loss in its second round world cup qualifying campaign on saturday (jun 12) with a 3-0 defeat by saudi arabia in riyadh.
with this defeat, singapore have conceded 12 goals in three matches in group d since the resumption of its joint qualification campaign for the 2022 world cup in qatar and the 2023 asian cup in china, scoring none in reply.
a5-0 defeat to uzbekistanon monday followed a4-0 loss to palestinelast week.
following the rout against the uzbeks, the lions made three changes to their starting lineup and showed an improved defensive performance against the saudis in the first half, with the match goalless at half-time.
saudi arabia's salem al-dawsari broke the deadlock in the 83rd minute with a right-footed shot from the edge of the 6-yard box.
three minutes later, fahad al-muwallad made it 2-0 before sahel al-shehri finished off proceedings in the sixth minute of stoppage time.
also in group d, uzbekistan pipped yemen 1-0 to keep the pressure on the saudis.
the table-toppers will be decided next week when both teams square off in riyadh.
the top-placed team from the eight second-round groups and the four best runners-up will progress to the third round of 2022 world cup qualifiers.
they will also qualify for the 2023 asian cup.
"today, our boys did very well and i am proud of them," said singapore coach tatsuma yoshida, whose remarks were carried on the football association of singaporewebsite.
"we changed our formation and they followed some (new) strategies .
.
.
it was fantastic, but saudi arabia are very strong.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
12 june 2021
two tournament dark horses bring plenty of talent to euro 2020robert page's welsh side kick off their euro 2020 group a campaign this afternoon against switzerland as they look to emulate their superb last showing in a major tournament.
read on for your guide to watching a wales vs switzerland live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
the welsh enjoyed an incredible run in france five years ago where they beat tournament favourites belgium before eventually being beaten by tournament winners portugal in the semi-final.
date: saturday, june 12kick-off time: 2pm bst / 3pm cet / 9am et / 6am pt / 11pm aest / 1am nzst (sun)venue: baku olympic stadium, baku, azerbaijanfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freewhile their warm-up preparations for euro 2020 haven't been ideal they were beaten by france, albeit with ten men and then failed to break down a battling albanian side in cardiff a team that possesses the attacking threat of gareth bale , and aaron ramsey should not be discounted.
the swiss come into this tournament in excellent form, having won their last six matches, the most recent victory an emphatic 7-0 thrashing of liechtenstein.
much of their hopes for this tournament may rest on striker haris seferovic who has been in sparkling form for benfica this season.
read on for how to watch an wales vs switzerland live stream for free today.
in the uk, this euro 2020 clash between wales and switzerland is being shown on bbc one along with welsh-language channel s4c.
coverage on both channels starts at 1.
15pm bst, with kick-off set to follow at 2pm bst.
you can also live stream both channel's coverage of wales vs switzerland for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this game.
kick-off stateside is at 9am et / 6am pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream wales vs switzerland directly through the espn website.
how to watch wales vs switzerland without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 11pm aest.
an optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
wales vs switzerland will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a wales vs switzerland live stream, with kick-off set for 9am et / 6am pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
kick off time for wales vs switzerland in new zealand is at a somewhat inconvenient 7am nzst on sunday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.

glenn price

@glennprice94


                                    xherdan shaqiri provided an assist as switzerland opened their euro 2020 campaign by drawing 1-1 with wales on saturday.
the liverpool attacker's corner was headed in by breel embolo early in the second half, before he was then withdrawn in the 66th minute.
but the group a encounter ended in a draw thanks to kieffer moore's equaliser, with harry wilson and neco williams both unused substitutes for wales.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
copenhagen (reuters) denmark coach kasper hjulmand said several of his players were too overwhelmed with emotion to finish their opening euro 2020 match against finland on saturday (june 12), after teammate christian eriksen collapsed on the pitch and was rushed to the hospital.
eriksen was surrounded by his teammates while being treated on the pitch and then stretchered away.
the game was eventually restarted an hour and 45 minutes later after news came through that he had regained consciousness.
finland won 1-0 with their only goal attempt of the match.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," a visibly drained hjulmand told a press conference after the game.
players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday, hjulmand said, adding there had been no pressure from uefa to finish the match on saturday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer who plays for milan in italy, were too upset to finish the game, he said.
"simon kjaer was deeply, deeply touched.
he was in doubt whether he could continue and gave it a shot, but ultimately he couldn't.
i completely understand that," hjulmand said.
a hush fell over the crowd of 16,000 fans while eriksen received treatment on the pitch, and outside bars around central copenhagen people gathered, many in tears, while the player's condition remained unclear.
hjulmand said the players came together in the dressing room, supporting each other and allowing themselves to show their emotions.
"i cannot be more proud of this group of people who take such good care of each other at this time, when a loved one is fighting for his life," he said.
"it was a very tough night and we were all reminded what's the most important in life.
"team doctor morten boesen said at the press conference that eriksen received life-saving cardiac massage on the pitch.
boesen added that he talked with eriksen before he was taken to the hospital, while soccer officials said the player's condition was stable.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 07:59												writer: 
															reuterscopenhagen: finland's 1-0 win over denmark in their european championship opener on saturday will be remembered for several reasons, coach markku kanerva said after their historic result was overshadowed by denmark's christian eriksen terrifying health scare.
playing in their first ever major international tournament, finland claimed a shock 1-0 win after striker joel pohjanpalo headed home the winner on the hour, while keeper lucas hradecky saved a penalty in the 73rd minute.
finland had only that one attempt on goal, compared with denmark's 22 shots on goal at the parken stadium.
"it was a very emotional night for us," kanerva said.
"first time in a major tournament and an opening game against denmark in their home stadium.
when we heard the national anthems, it was very emotional for us.
"and then what happened with christian eriksen a very dramatic and sad incident.
"and then finally, we get a good result from the game.
of course i am happy for that.
unbelievable, we are going to remember this for a long time for different reasons.
"eriksen required cpr and emergency medical treatment after collapsing on the pitch, leading to the match being suspended for an hour and 45 minutes before it was restarted.
the 29-year-old was rushed to hospital where his condition was stabilised.
the danes were clearly affected by the trauma of eriksen's collapse, with some wiping away tears before the restart.
finland's pohjanpalo also refused to celebrate after scoring the winner.
"i said to them that i understood the emotions of the game and how they would feel after what had happened to christian," kanerva added.
"i said to them, 'try to focus as much as you can on the game'.
i said 'i know it will be difficult to do that', but they coped really well.
"heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.
italy kicked off the european championship in emphatic style on saturday morning (june 12, singapore time) as they delivered a commanding performance to sweep past toothless turkey 3-0 at the stadio olimpico in rome and stamp their early authority on group a. after a goalless first half, an own goal and strikes by ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne were just reward for the home side, who played with relentless positivity from the start.
their dispiriting failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup looked a distant memory as they stretched their unbeaten run to 28 matches in a buoyant atmosphere.
they were helped by a flat display from turkey, who lost their fifth consecutive opening match of a european championship and barely mustered a worthwhile attack all night.
"it was important to start well here in rome and it is a joy for us and for all the italians," said coach roberto mancini.
"we produced a good performance and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams.
"switzerland and wales, who meet in the group's second game in baku on saturday, always knew italy were the group favourites but the size of their task has suddenly looked somewhat bigger.
after a build-up featuring a spine-tingling rendition of nessun dorma by opera singer andrea bocelli – channelling thoughts of italia '90 – a spectacular fireworks display and a typically raucous rendition of italy's national anthem, the 16,000-strong crowd was in fine voice by kick-off.
they were given plenty to cheer too as italy made all the early running against a turkish team happy to sit deep and invite pressure.
however, mancini's side were left frustrated in their efforts to break through the wall of red shirts.
giorgio chiellini had a header tipped over with a spectacular one-handed save by ugurcan cakir and immobile nodded a cross wide as italy went in at the break with 14 attempts to none from turkey – but without a goal.
they kept probing and their patience was rewarded when berardi fired a cross into the six-yard box where demiral chested the ball into the net – the first time in a european championship that the tournament's opening goal was an own goal.
the ever-dangerous leonardo spinazzola had a shot beaten away and manuel locatelli's low effort was palmed wide before immobile doubled italy's lead by pouncing on cakir's parry from another spinazzola effort to neatly knock in the rebound.
the azzurri's dominance was rewarded again when immobile threaded a pass to insigne, who placed a precise finish into the bottom corner with 11 minutes remaining.
it marked the first time italy had scored three goals in a match at the euros at their 39th attempt and capped a perfect start.
mancini had told his players they should enjoy themselves and seek to entertain and that was exactly what they did for a jubilant home crowd.
there was only gloom in the visiting camp as veteran coach senol gunes, who led turkey to third place at the 2002 world cup, apologised for the performance.
"i was expecting a better game, and i am disappointed and we are sorry," he said.
"italy totally controlled the game.
"on june 16, italy face switzerland in rome and turkey take on wales in baku in the second round of group a games.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
denmark midfielder christian eriksen, who was hospitalised after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opener against finland on saturday (jun 12), had no prior heart issues during his time with premier league club tottenham hotspur, his former cardiologist said.
eriksen, 29, collapsed in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in and was given life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch, with officials later saying that the player was stable and awake.
dr sanjay sharma of st.  george's university of london said eriksen had returned normal tests since 2013, but the sight of the inter milan playmaker falling to the ground had briefly raised concerns that doctors had missed something.
"i thought, 'oh my god?
is there something there that we didn't see?'
but i have looked at all the test results and everything looked perfect," sharma told the mail on sunday.
"from the day we signed him, it was my job to screen him and we tested him every year.
so certainly his tests up to 2019 were completely normal, with no obvious underlying cardiac fault.
i can vouch for that because i did the tests.
"former bolton wanderers midfielder fabrice muamba said that eriksen's collapse brought back painful memories of his cardiac arrest on the pitch in an fa cup match in 2012.  the ex-england under-21 midfielder had to retire soon after at the age of 24.
"it brought back stuff that i have put down in me, this emotion that's down there.
to watch it from that distance and not know what was going to happen," muamba told the bbc.
"it was scary, but credit to the medical staff.
they have done an amazing job on christian.
i like how his team mates got together to protect him.
"i hope things turn out to be ok for him.
i hope he will come through.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
italy star ciro immobile basked in his goal against turkey on friday as he and his team-mates embraced fans returning to the stands after more than a year of battling the coronavirus.
immobile scored the second of italy's goals, leading the way in a 3-0 win that also included a finish from lorenzo insigne and an unfortunate own goal from merih demiral.
italy's euro 2020-opening win came at the stadio olimpico, home of immobile's club team lazio, making the striker's goal even sweeter.
"seeing the fans celebrate after all this time was wonderful, we finally got to come together after so long of this damned virus," immobile told rai sport.
"i think we showed patience this evening.
turkey are a strong side and caused problems for many top teams.
we tried to tire them out in the first half, moving the ball left and right, trying to spread them.
"unfortunately, we regularly hit their brick wall, especially as we're not that good in the air.
turkey were more tired after the break, and after the goal they had to open up some spaces, so that's when our quality emerged.
"scoring a goal on the euros debut in my stadium, it doesn't get better.
"immobile wasn't the only one moved by friday's match, as man of the match leonardo spinazzola admitted it was an emotional day.
italy was one of the countries hit hardest by the coronavirus over the last year, and seeing fans in the stadium once again was something special to the italy defender.
"the emotions started on the bus towards the stadium, seeing all the people in the streets.
it really did give us goosebumps," he told sky sport italia.
"it was a perfect performance.
we were patient, we moved the ball around well.
then afterwards i saw my son in the stands, it was emotional. "
italy kickstarted the tournament in style with the 3-0 win in what was their first ever three-goal performance at the euros.
the azzurri are seen by many as a contender to make a deep run into the tournament, although they haven't received the same attention as some of the other tournament favourites.
friday's result will no doubt give them some momentum heading through the rest of the group stages and perhaps even into the knockout rounds going forward.
"when you start this adventure, you need some tension, some goosebumps, the desire to get out there.
i imagined it'd be like this because of the path we took to get here," defender leonardo bonucci told sky sport italia.
"now this is the first in a long journey, so we keep our feet on the ground, as it's going to be a run of very close games, the opponents will get to know us better, but we know that we can have our say.
"with people around us in the stands, it's a whole other style of football.
they keep our hearts aflame throughout the match.
"now from tomorrow let's cancel out the negative, take the positive and prepare for the next match. "
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
aatif sulleyman
12 june 2021
can messi finally get his hands on america's cup?
lionel messi, neymar and luis suarez headline an ensemble of the world's top footballing talents as they strive to lead their respective countries to 2021 copa america glory over the next four weeks.
read on to find out how to watch a copa america 2021 live stream from anywhere.
dates: june 13 july 11, 2021free copa america 2021 live stream: bbc iplayer (uk)global live streams: fox sports via fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | univision (can) | spark sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freepão e circo are the order of the day in covid-crippled brazil, which brushed aside international condemnation to accept hosting duties, after deadly political unrest and a worsening health crisis deemed colombia and argentina unsuitable.
football fans will be keeping their fingers crossed that off-field problems don't overshadow what should be a celebration of sport, but may end up as one of the most controversial events ever.
in normal times, the copa america is one of football's most spectacular festivals and a tournament that's been traditionally dominated by the big three: uruguay (15 titles), argentina (14) and brazil (9).
and like euro 2020 on the other side of the atlantic, it has been eagerly awaited.
the seleção are the defending champions, with everton, gabriel jesus and richarlison having fired brazil to victory over peru in the final two years ago.
incredibly, messi has never lifted america's cup, having tasted defeat in three finals, the last of which pushed him to an early, albeit temporary, international retirement.
copa america has become an obsession for la albiceleste, who haven't won the tournament in 28 years.
here's how to live stream copa america 2021 from anywhere not forgetting how to watch every game of copa america for free.
there are loads of options for watching a free copa america live stream.
as usual, football fans in the uk are extremely lucky on this front, with all the games being shown by national broadcaster bbc on its free-to-watch  iplayer streaming service.
elsewhere the likes of televisión pública in argentina, sbt in brazil, canal 13 in chile, and américa televisión in peru will also be carrying some free coverage throughout the tournament.
scroll down for all the ways you can watch copa america online in a number of countries around the world.
but first, you should know that if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you probably won't be able to watch the footy like you normally would at home.
this is because of geo-blocking, a digital restriction that means certain streaming services are only accessible in the region they're based in.
don't sweat it, though, as you've got the option of using a vpn to tune to your preferred coverage wherever you are.
use a vpn to live stream copa america 2021 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've taken the time to try out all the biggest vpn providers and we found expressvpn to be the best of the bunch.
it works with lots of devices and offers super fast connections across its many servers.
it's compatible with loads of devices including ios, android, amazon fire stick, playstation, apple tv and such, and we found it secure, speedy and simple-to-use.
throw in its robust security features, and expressvpn is the best all-round vpn for streaming and perhaps best of all, it has a 30-day money back guarantee plus 3 months free when you subscribe for a year.
once you've downloaded the software, just follow the prompts to install it then select the location you want to relocate your ip address to it really is that easy.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysremember, there are loads of benefits to using a vpn beyond just helping you regain access to streaming services and content from abroad.
one of the biggest is security: by using encrypted tunnels, vpns give you a robust first-line of defense against cybercriminals and government snooping.
this makes everyday tasks like online shopping and banking much safer, and many people choose to use one for that reason alone.
the great news for football fans based in the uk is that you can watch copa america free online for every single game of the tournament!if you're not in front of a tv, you can stream all of the action on bbc iplayer.
as a national broadcaster, it doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
you can also watch every single match via the red button.
kick-off times vary, but all of the action takes place late at night, with the early games set to begin at 10pm bst, and the latest at 2am bst.
not in the uk for copa america?
no worries residents of the country can just download and install a vpn to port themselves back home to a uk location, then watch live as normal.
soccer fans based in the us can tune in to copa america on fox sports.
if you get the channel as part of your cable package, you can also watch the action unfold on fox sports' streaming platform, though you'll have to enter your cable provider's credentials.
not got cable?
there are plenty of over-the-top tv streaming services you can use too.
of the many options, we think sling tv is the best fit for most soccer fans' needs, with its blue package offering fox sports.
sling blue usually costs $35 per month, but new subscribers can get a fantastic bargain right now you can save big bucks with this sling tv deal, which lets you get a whole month of sling blue for $10.
another great option is fubotv, an even more comprehensive streamer that also offers fox sports channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month, but there's a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
spanish-language coverage is also available in the us via tudn and univision.
and remember, if you're abroad right now you can use a vpn to tune into your home subscription service, no matter where you are in the world.
in australia, there's only one place to tune into copa america 2021, with optus sport set to show all of the action from the tournament.
optus coverage can be streamed via mobile and tablet with the channel's app, while cord-cutters can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
you can sign up to optus sport on the service's website here.
kick-off times vary, but most of the action takes place before noon, with the early games set to begin at 7am aest, and the latest at 11am bst.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
it's cable for soccer fans in canada, with spanish-language channel univision showing the copa america action in the great white north.
kick-offs are timed conveniently, with the early games set to begin at 5pm et / 2pm pt, and the latest at 9pm et / 6pm pt.
premium streaming service spark sport has the exclusive rights to copa america in new zealand.
and because spark sport offers a 1-month free trial to new users, you can tune in for free.
after that, a subscription costs $24.
99 per month, and includes plenty of black caps action, as well as nba basketball, f1 racing, and motogp.
kick-off times vary, but most of the action takes place in the late morning and early afternoon, with the early games set to begin at 9am nzst, and the latest at 1pm nzst.
group agroup ball times bst.
group stage (june 13-29 2021)sunday, june 13 2021monday, june 14 2021tuesday, june 15 2021thursday, june 17 2021friday, june 18 2021saturday, june 19 2021sunday, june 20 2021monday, june 21 2021tuesday, june 22 2021wednesday, june 23 2021thursday, june 24 2021friday, june 25 2021sunday, june 27 2021tuesday, june 29 2021knockout stage (july 2-11 2021)quarter-finalsfriday, july 2 2021saturday, july 3 2021sunday, july 4 2021semi-finalstuesday, july 6 2021wednesday, july 7 2021third-place playoff1am, saturday, july 10 20211am, sunday, july 11 2021sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
by stefano pozzebon, cnnupdated 1455 gmt (2255 hkt) june 12, 2021 bogota, colombia (cnn)the copa america, south america's premier football competition, due to kick off june 13 in the brazilian capital of brasilia, is triggering a wave of strong reactions for a sporting event.
rodrigo pedroso contributed to this report from são paulo.
published :
													13 jun 2021 at 08:00												writer: 
															reutersst petersburg: romelu lukaku struck twice as belgium confirmed their status as one of the favourites for euro 2020 with a confident 3-0 victory over russia on saturday.
despite being without key performer kevin de bruyne, world number one ranked belgium were rarely in trouble against a russia side that struggled to impose themselves.
roberto martinez's belgium top group b on three points, ahead on goal difference of finland who beat denmark in the group's other game in copenhagen.
the red devils are unbeaten in 10 games in all competitions and have suffered just one defeat in their last 24 outings.
they have also scored in each of their last 31 games.
the visitor's grabbed the lead in the 10th minute when andrei semyonov failed to deal with a ball into the box from leander dendoncker, and lukaku turned and fired into the bottom corner.
lukaku celebrated his goal by running to the television camera and shouting "chris, chris, i love you" in tribute to christian eriksen, the danish midfielder and his club team-mate at inter milan, who had been rushed to hospital after collapsing during the earlier game in the group.
belgium were calm in possession and finding plenty of time and space against a russia side who struggled to get a firm grip on the game.
the russians reached the quarter-finals in the world cup they hosted in 2018 but the energy of those performances was missing, despite playing at home in front of more than 26,000 fans.
stanislav cherchesov struggled to find either the tempo to their attacks or a way to provide quality service to striker artem dzyuba who was too often left isolated.
it was no surprise when the second goal came, in the 34th minute, when russia keeper anton shunin could only parry thorgan hazard's shot towards thomas meunier, who made no mistake.
russia applied some pressure after the interval but the beligans coped without too much panic and the game already felt decided before lukaku wrapped up the win with a well-taken effort after racing on to a through ball from meunier.
lukaku said the eriksen situation had left him in tears before the game.
"i cried a lot because i was scared, obviously.
you live strong moments together.
i spent more time with him than with my family," he said.
"my thoughts are with him, his girlfriend, his two kids and his family," he added.
"i enjoyed the game but for me, it was difficult to play because my mind was with christian.
i hope he is healthy and i dedicate this performance to him," added the former manchester united striker.
cherchesov conceded his team had struggled after falling behind to lukaku's opener.
"our tournament is continuing.
we are doing our job.
we chose our system, it worked partly but then started to break down.
the belgians scored and then it was difficult to get the ball off them.
"the russians host finland on wednesday and will need to quickly get their campaign on track.
"we will get out of the situation.
we put ourselves there, so we must now get out of it," cherchesov added.
lukaku and the belgian team had taken the knee before the kick-off but the anti-racist gesture was met with jeers and whistles from the crowd.
heavy to very heavy rain is expected in the north and northeast of thailand on sunday due to tropical storm "koguma", the thai meteorological department announced in its 5am weather bulletin.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
most thais lack confidence in govt's handling of covid crisis and see political meddling in vaccine distribution, says nida poll.
rome:     roberto mancini might be laughing now, but the italy coach will not find it so easy to play down his team's chances of winning euro 2020 if they continue like they started.
the azzurri put in a dominant, swashbuckling display as they flattened turkey 3-0 in rome's stadio olimpico on friday to start their campaign in style.
the victory marked their 28th consecutive game without defeat, leaving mancini two games away from equalling double world cup winning manager vittorio pozzo's all-time unbeaten record from the 1930s.
but when asked if his side were now among the tournament favourites, mancini laughed.
"it was important to start well here in rome and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams," he said.
the second part of mancini's answer showed that while he does not want his players to face the pressure that comes with being favourites, his ambition is nevertheless to reach the final in six games' time.
that does not seem like an unlikely proposition after an opening day performance that could not have gone much better, as all of mancini's big selection decisions paid off.
"italy were almost perfect, dominating possession and creating a lot of chances without ever leaving themselves at risk," 2006 world cup winner alessandro del piero told sky italia.
the question of who should lead the line has long been a cause of debate in italy, but lazio striker ciro immobile answered his critics in his club's home stadium by scoring his first major tournament goal before setting up lorenzo insigne for italy's third.
leonardo spinazzola's selection at left back ahead of chelsea's emerson proved to be a great call as the as roma man also shone on a familiar pitch, earning the man of the match award after terrorising the turks' right flank for 90 minutes.
domenico berardi was preferred to federico chiesa on the right wing and was heavily involved; his awkward cross led to merih demiral's own goal to calm any italian nerves.
by fulltime, the azzurri had scored three goals in a european championship match for the first time and all of mancini's decisions were justified.
it was a magical night for the italians present in the 16,000-strong crowd, and the anger and disappointment of the failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup is now a distant memory.
based on the opening day evidence, mancini will not be able to laugh off italy's title-winning credentials for long.
(reporting by alasdair mackenzie; editing by christian radnedge)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
rome: italy kicked off the european championship with a convincing 3-0 victory over turkey in group a at the olympic stadium on friday (jun 11) with ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne on target.
roberto mancini's side had been frustrated by turkey's defensive approach in the first half but broke through in the 53rd minute when a hard-hit cross from domenico berardi flew in off turkey defender merih demiral for an own goal.
the azzurri, now unbeaten in 28 matches, doubled their lead in the 66th when leonardo spinazzola's drive was parried by turkey goalkeeper ugurcan cakir but immobile reacted well to slot home the loose ball.
insigne made it 3-0 in the 79th minute with a confident, curling finish after some sloppy defending from the disappointing turks.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
a spectacular sound and light show and fireworks preceded kick-off for the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries having been delayed for a year because of the coronavirus pandemic.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
switzerland and wales face each in the group's second game in baku on saturday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
rome: italy will face stronger opposition than turkey at euro 2020 but a commanding3-0 win in the tournament's opening matchin front of their own fans on friday suggests the azzurri have all the ingredients to go far.
the outcome was fitting reward for roberto mancini's side who stretched their unbeaten run to 28 games with an impressive performance while also keeping another clean sheet, their 12th in the last 13 games.
mancini, who took over after italy failed to qualify for the 2018 world cup, has transformed a dull and predictable-looking side into a potent unit whose three-pronged attack thrives alongside a creative midfield and formidable defence.
mancini has abandoned italy's conservative style of safety first and carved out an adventurous outfit whose approach based on crisp, one-touch passing secured 10 straight wins in qualifying, with 37 goals scored and four conceded.
a 4-0 win over the czech republic in their final warm-up last sunday turned out to be a taste of what was to come at the olympic stadium as mancini fielded an unchanged team against the turks and his men delivered again.
toothless turkey held on in the first half by defending with everyone behind the ball but the italians left the impression it was only a matter of time before the floodgates opened.
domenico berardi was a threat on the right flank all evening and there was only going to be one outcome after merih demiral turned the forward's cross into his own net in the 53rd minute.
with left back leonardo spinazzola doing damage on the other flank, turkey's defence, which conceded three goals in 10 qualifying games, looked all at sea and had no reply to italy's raids.
ciro immobile got his reward with a typically opportunist goal to make it 2-0 in the 66th minute before lorenzo insigne put the icing on the cake in the 79th with a fine shot past helpless goalkeeper ugurcan cakir.
at the other end, the long-serving central defensive duo of giorgio chiellini and leonardo bonucci looked as comfortable as ever in keeping turkey's top scorer burak yilmaz at bay and breaking out to feed the midfield.
having scored three goals in one european championship match for the first time, italy's new-found confidence and commitment to attacking football looks likely to bear more fruit.
they will head into their remaining group a matches against switzerland and wales at the same venue buoyed by a display which delighted the home fans who will crave more of the same.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
kevin lynch
11 june 2021
euro 2020 has arrived with an intriguing match-up in romedelayed by a mere 12 months, the wait is finally over as the travelling football roadshow that is euro 2020 gets under way at last this evening with this tasty-looking opening match in rome.
read on for your guide to watching a turkey vs italy live stream and find out how to watch euro 2020 online from anywhere.
having missed the 2018 world cup, the azzurri will be keen to reassert themselves on the international stage with strong showing in this tournament.
date: friday, june 11kick-off time: 9pm cet / 8pm bst / 3pm et / 12pm pt / 5am aest / 7am nzstvenue: stadio olimpico, rome, italyfree live stream: bbc iplayer (see below for more)global live streams: espn/abc / fubotv (us) | optus sport (aus) | tsn/tva sports (can) | sky sport (nz)watch anywhere: try expressvpn 100% risk-freeroberto mancini's side will therefore be desperate to make a good start and have the advantage of starting the campaign on home turf, with this match taking place at  the iconic stadio olimpico in rome.
it's a tough tournament opener for the italians however, with turkey the epitome of an unpredictable opponent.
şenol güneş's side started the year in fine form with wins against european heavyweights the netherlands and norway in world cup 2022 qualifiers.
however, underwhelming performances against azerbaijan, guinea and moldova in the run up to euro 2020 place question marks over how far they'll progress in this tournament.
while italy won all 10 of their qualifying matches.
read on for how to watch an turkey v italy live stream for free today.
there's great news for anyone looking to binge watch this summer's tournament, with a number of european broadcasters showing every match for free.
itv and the bbc are sharing the rights between to show games in the uk, with today's opening match between turkey and italy being shown live on bbc1.
generally speaking, italian fans looking to cheer on their side in this game can watch for free on rai sport, folk in spain can tune in via mediaset, anyone in france can watch on tf1, and in germany ard and zdf have you covered.
if you're in those countries, we suggest you double check your local listings to confirm the details.
our guide below gives detailed instructions on how you can watch this euro 2020 match live in the uk, us, australia, canada and new zealand.
however, if you're abroad at any point during the tournament, you won't be able to live stream the football via your usual domestic broadcaster.
this is down to geo-blocking, which restricts certain services and content to specific parts of the world.
however, you can get avoid geo-blocks by using a vpn, or virtual private network.
it's completely legal, very affordable and easy to use and it also encrypts your browsing, offering protection against cybercriminals and government snooping.
use a vpn to live stream euro 2020 from anywhereexpressvpn is the world's top vpn right now
we've put all of the major vpn's through their paces, and our current top-ranked service in our tests was expressvpn.
dead simple to use, yet fast and with full suite of security features thrown in, it can also be used on a wide variety of devices, with dedicated apps for android and apple smartphones.
you can also use it on the amazon fire tv stick, apple tv, xbox and playstation.
if you want to stay safe online and watch your preferred broadcast from anywhere, you won't find anything better than expressvpn.
better still, you can get an extra 3 months free if you sign up for an annual plan.
and there's nothing to lose, because if you change your mind within the first 30 days, let them know and they'll give you your money back.
try expressvpn 100% risk-free for 30 daysonce you've got expressvpn installed, watching your domestic euro 2020 coverage is a piece of cake.
simply select a server back in your home country and then fire up the stream like you normally would when back at home.
in the uk, this opening match of euro 2020 between turkey and italy is being shown on bbc one.
coverage starts at 7pm bst and includes all the build up as well as the tournaments opening ceremony, with kick-off set to follow at 8pm bst.
you can also live stream turkey vs italy for free via bbc iplayer, which works across a wide range of devices, including phones, tablets, laptops, games consoles and streaming devices.
as a national broadcaster, bbc iplayer doesn't cost a penny to stream if you're located in the uk (though you should possess a valid tv licence).
if you're not in the uk right now, you can use a vpn and follow the instructions above to live stream the action on  just as you would at home.
abc and espn are sharing broadcast rights for euro 2020 in the us, with espn showing this opening game.
kick-off stateside is at 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you get espn as part of your cable package, you can also live stream turkey vs italy directly through the espn website.
how to watch turkey vs italy without cablefor all the cord-cutters out there, you've a number of options for watching every single euro 2020 game without laying out for an expensive cable package.
over-the-top streaming service sling tv is one of the most cost-effective options.
its orange package costs just $35 a month and gets you all the games on espn and abc (the latter thanks to simulcasts on espn3).
better still, sling is offering new subscribers a fantastic bargain right now you can get a whole month of sling orange for $10.
the package also includes tnt, nick jr.  and plenty more, and unlike cable, you can cancel your subscription at any time.
another solid choice is fubotv, which is an even more fully-featured streaming service that offers espn, abc and more than 120 other channels.
packages start from $64.
99 a month and there's even a free fubotv trial you can try to see if it's right for you.
underlying its reputation as the broadcaster of choice down under for football, optus sport has exclusive live broadcast rights in australia for euro 2020 matches, including this match which is set to get under way at 5am aest.
and if you're prepared to get up early enough then the great news is that optus is showing this first game absolutely free!for the rest of the tournament.
optus sport subscription will set you back $14.
99 per month, but you can save money by signing up for a longer term, with a three-month plan costing $29.
99 and a 12-month pass available for $99.
you can stream optus sport coverage via your mobile, pc or tablet, and can also access the service on fetch tv, chromecast or apple tv.
and if you leave oz at any point during the tournament, simply use a vpn to tune in as normal on your optus account.
turkey vs italy will be shown live in canada, along with the rest of euro 2020, on english-language tsn or french-language tva sports.
if you get them as part of your cable deal, then you'll just be able to log in with the details of your provider and get access to a turkey vs italy live stream, with kick-off set for 3pm et / 12pm pt.
if you don't have cable, it may make more sense to opt for their digital platforms.
the tsn direct and tva sports direct streaming services each cost just $19.
99 a month, and work across a range of devices, including phones, computers and tablets.
and don't forget that using a vpn is the way to get a euro 2020 live stream if you're away from canada when the game you want to watch is on.
kiwis can watch all the euro 2020 action on sky sport.
as you'd expect, there's a somewhat inconvenient kick off time for this match in new zealand, with turkey vs italy set to start at 7am nzst on saturday morning.
you can get sky sport in new zealand as part of a range of pay tv packages, and subscribers can watch online via the sky go service.
if you're not already a customer, you can try the sky sport now streaming-only platform, which costs $19.
99 for a weekly pass and works across a wide range of devices, including phones, laptops, apple tv and chromecast.
anyone in new zealand from abroad or vice-versa can use the vpn route outlined above to access their service of choice just like they would at home.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
by evan simko-bednarski, cnnupdated 0223 gmt (1023 hkt) june 12, 2021  (cnn)a cape cod lobster diver is safe friday, following a fluke encounter with a humpback whale that nearly made him the leviathan's lunch.
italy kicked off the european championship in emphatic style on saturday morning (june 12, singapore time) as they delivered a commanding performance to sweep past toothless turkey 3-0 at the stadio olimpico in rome and stamp their early authority on group a. after a goalless first half, an own goal and strikes by ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne were just reward for the home side, who played with relentless positivity from the start.
their dispiriting failure to qualify for the 2018 world cup looked a distant memory as they stretched their unbeaten run to 28 matches in a buoyant atmosphere.
they were helped by a flat display from turkey, who lost their fifth consecutive opening match of a european championship and barely mustered a worthwhile attack all night.
"it was important to start well here in rome and it is a joy for us and for all the italians," said coach roberto mancini.
"we produced a good performance and i think we satisfied everyone, for the fans and all the italians watching.
(but) there are six games to go and there are a lot of good teams.
"switzerland and wales, who meet in the group's second game in baku on saturday, always knew italy were the group favourites but the size of their task has suddenly looked somewhat bigger.
after a build-up featuring a spine-tingling rendition of nessun dorma by opera singer andrea bocelli – channelling thoughts of italia '90 – a spectacular fireworks display and a typically raucous rendition of italy's national anthem, the 16,000-strong crowd was in fine voice by kick-off.
they were given plenty to cheer too as italy made all the early running against a turkish team happy to sit deep and invite pressure.
however, mancini's side were left frustrated in their efforts to break through the wall of red shirts.
giorgio chiellini had a header tipped over with a spectacular one-handed save by ugurcan cakir and immobile nodded a cross wide as italy went in at the break with 14 attempts to none from turkey – but without a goal.
they kept probing and their patience was rewarded when berardi fired a cross into the six-yard box where demiral chested the ball into the net – the first time in a european championship that the tournament's opening goal was an own goal.
the ever-dangerous leonardo spinazzola had a shot beaten away and manuel locatelli's low effort was palmed wide before immobile doubled italy's lead by pouncing on cakir's parry from another spinazzola effort to neatly knock in the rebound.
the azzurri's dominance was rewarded again when immobile threaded a pass to insigne, who placed a precise finish into the bottom corner with 11 minutes remaining.
it marked the first time italy had scored three goals in a match at the euros at their 39th attempt and capped a perfect start.
mancini had told his players they should enjoy themselves and seek to entertain and that was exactly what they did for a jubilant home crowd.
there was only gloom in the visiting camp as veteran coach senol gunes, who led turkey to third place at the 2002 world cup, apologised for the performance.
"i was expecting a better game, and i am disappointed and we are sorry," he said.
"italy totally controlled the game.
"on june 16, italy face switzerland in rome and turkey take on wales in baku in the second round of group a games.
– reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
