'His life's work captures the atmosphere of the changing times': PM Lee celebrates pioneer artist Lim Tze Peng at book, art exhibition launch, Singapore News.
singapore twenty-four private healthcare institutions have been selected by the ministry of health (moh) to be licensed providers of sinovac's covid-19 vaccine.
moh said on wednesday night (june 16) that they will be able to draw on an existing stock of the vaccine, and can administer it to singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders here.
the ministry added that as the vaccine is being provided to the institutions at no cost, the providers should not charge people for the cost of the vaccines.
there should not be any additional costs beyond vaccination administration fees, which already include consultation charges and seven per cent gst, said moh.
these range from $10 to $25 per dose.
those interested may contact the providers directly from june 18 for more details on how they may receive the vaccine.
the 24 were chosen based on their ability to administer the vaccines safely, properly and efficiently, said moh, adding that it had also considered their vaccination administration fees, experience in vaccine administration and compliance history at past licensing inspections.
this will ensure that the services will be safe and affordable to members of public, said the ministry.
moh added that only 24 providers were approved, to ensure economies of scale for each institution administering the vaccines.
[[nid:515527]]price and quality parameters were taken into consideration, as was the geographical spread of the providers, to ensure accessibility to members of the public.
moh added that as sinovac's vaccine remains unregistered and is not authorised by the health sciences authority (hsa) for use under the pandemic special access route, it is to be provided only under the special access route (sar) framework, and hence will not be covered under the vaccine injury financial assistance programme meant for the national vaccination programme.
"individuals who nevertheless wish to receive sinovac-coronavac vaccinations under the sar framework should discuss with their doctors in the selected private healthcare institutions the risks and benefits of using the sinovac-coronavac vaccine, and jointly make an informed decision," the ministry cautioned.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
tokyo: japan's government on thursday (jun 17) approved lifting tokyo's virus emergency just over a month before the olympics, but set new restrictions that could sharply limit fans at games events.
the state of emergency in place in tokyo began in late april and largely limits bar and restaurant opening hours and bans them from selling alcohol.
that measure will now end in the capital and eight other regions on jun 20, prime minister yoshihide suga announced.
it will stay in place in okinawa.
"the number of infections nationwide has been declining since mid-may and the situation in terms of hospital beds is steadily improving," he said.
"on the other hand, in some regions, there are signs that the fall in the number of infections is slowing," suga added.
in place of the emergency, the government will implement so-called "quasi-emergency" measures in tokyo and six other areas until jul 11. the measures will slightly relax the rules on alcohol, allowing sales until 7pm, but still asks restaurants and bars to shut at 8pm.
crucially, with just five weeks until the pandemic-postponed games open, tokyo is likely to maintain strict limits on the number of spectators allowed at large events.
the current state of emergency allows only 5,000 people or 50 per cent of venue capacity, whichever is smaller.
and on wednesday, the government approved an upper limit of 10,000 spectators for areas not under any restrictions.
those rules are likely to guide olympic organisers when they decide in the coming days how many domestic fans, if any, will be allowed to attend.
overseas fans have already been banned from the games for the first time, and organisers said they would wait to rule on domestic spectators until the emergency was lifted.
possible ticket lotterythe issue is controversial.
while cases in japan have fallen from their fourth wave peak, some medical professionals fear that crowds of olympic spectators could fan a new surge.
a report expected soon from some of the government's top medical advisers will argue holding the games without fans would be safest, national broadcaster nhk said on thursday.
the experts will urge that additional rules are imposed if spectators are allowed, nhk said.
japan has seen a comparatively small virus outbreak, with slightly over 14,000 deaths despite avoiding harsh lockdowns.
but just over 6 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated so far.
given the likely restrictions, olympic organisers have given up on selling any more tickets and are weighing a lottery system to determine which ticketholders will be able to attend events, kyodo news agency reported.
millions of tickets were sold in japan last year before the postponement, and while several hundred thousand applications for refunds were processed after the games were postponed, the number of ticketholders is still likely to exceed any spectator caps at many events.
with just over a month until the games open, organisers are attempting to build confidence that the biggest international event since the pandemic began will be safe for participants and the public.
newly updated virus rulebooks released this week warn athletes they could be expelled from the games if they violate requirements like mask-wearing and daily testing.
organisers say more than 80 per cent of athletes will be vaccinated and they will be barred from interacting with the japanese public.
recent polls have suggested a slight shift in public opposition to holding the games, with more now in favour of it going ahead than cancelling it.
previous surveys that offered postponement as an option tended to show most japanese preferred either another delay or cancellation.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing need to fight back against hegemonism and power politics" and to safeguard national sovereignty and security.
"here is our solemn message to the small handful of anti-china forces: the dignity and legitimate rights of the chinese people are not to be undermined.
the historical trend towards the great rejuvenation of the chinese nation under the cpc [communist party of china] leadership is not to be stopped," he said on wednesday.
do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world?
get the answers with scmp knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, faqs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.
"any attempt, open or underhanded, to interfere in china's internal affairs and curb china's development is doomed to fail.
"liu's message was delivered at an international symposium celebrating the coming 100th anniversary of the communist party.
co-organised by beijing's liaison office in hong kong and the state-owned bauhinia culture holdings, the forum was attended by more than 100 guests from the city's political and business sectors, as well as by local and overseas academics who joined via video link.
earlier this month, liu said he would work with chief executive carrie lam cheng yuet-ngor to safeguard china's sovereignty and security and to oppose external interference, during a 40-minute meeting with the city's leader at government house.
china's top legislative body imposed a sweeping national security law on hong kong last june, then followed it with a radical shake-up of the city's electoral system earlier this year intended to ensure that "patriots" would dominate the legislature and other key political institutions.
liu on wednesday said those two decisions had delivered "a major transformation from chaos to stability" in hong kong.
"'one country, two systems' has entered another stage of enduring success," he said, referring to the governing principle in the city.
"at this historical juncture, the commissioner's office will .
.
.
stay true to our founding mission as we forge ahead.
we will more vigorously oppose external interference, serve the [city's] development and put people at the centre, and join hands with the hong kong community to take diplomatic work related to hong kong to new heights.
"liaison office deputy director tan tieniu, speaking at the same forum, said the security law and electoral overhaul had helped protect the city's constitutional order, prosperity and stability.
in her own speech, lam said that even though hong kong had faced unprecedented challenges since the 2019 social unrest, the central government and communist party had stayed true to the original intent of one country, two systems.
"now that hong kong has been put back on its right course under the party's declared institutional strength of one country, two systems, we should make our contribution to the chinese dream by embracing patriotism, national pride, team spirit and hard work and putting the people's interest first," she added.
more from south china morning post:beijing's new chief diplomat in hong kong says battle against 'foreign forces' his top priority, dubs 2019 protests a 'colour revolution'beijing's anti-sanctions law will give us, others 'a taste of their own medicine', hong kong leader carrie lam saysnational security law: hong kong, beijing tell britain to 'abandon colonial nostalgia' after report accuses authorities of stifling dissentthis article beijing's top diplomat in hong kong doubles down on warnings to 'foreign forces' in first public appearance first appeared on south china morning postfor the latest news from the south china morning post download our mobile app.
copyright 2021. beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalityhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buaustralia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
megaworld corp.  is seeking to raise as much as p27.
3 billion ($568 million) from an initial public offering of its office unit in what would be the philippines' biggest for a real estate investment trust.
prime minister boris johnson warned wednesday he will take "necessary steps" to unilaterally alter britain's post-brexit trade terms unless the eu changes the way it is implementing them in northern ireland.
the european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus o
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing need to fight back against hegemonism and power politics" and to safeguard national sovereignty and security.
"here is our solemn message to the small handful of anti-china forces: the dignity and legitimate rights of the chinese people are not to be undermined.
the historical trend towards the great rejuvenation of the chinese nation under the cpc [communist party of china] leadership is not to be stopped," he said on wednesday.
do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world?
get the answers with scmp knowledge, our new platform of curated content with explainers, faqs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.
"any attempt, open or underhanded, to interfere in china's internal affairs and curb china's development is doomed to fail.
"liu's message was delivered at an international symposium celebrating the coming 100th anniversary of the communist party.
co-organised by beijing's liaison office in hong kong and the state-owned bauhinia culture holdings, the forum was attended by more than 100 guests from the city's political and business sectors, as well as by local and overseas academics who joined via video link.
earlier this month, liu said he would work with chief executive carrie lam cheng yuet-ngor to safeguard china's sovereignty and security and to oppose external interference, during a 40-minute meeting with the city's leader at government house.
china's top legislative body imposed a sweeping national security law on hong kong last june, then followed it with a radical shake-up of the city's electoral system earlier this year intended to ensure that "patriots" would dominate the legislature and other key political institutions.
liu on wednesday said those two decisions had delivered "a major transformation from chaos to stability" in hong kong.
"'one country, two systems' has entered another stage of enduring success," he said, referring to the governing principle in the city.
"at this historical juncture, the commissioner's office will .
.
.
stay true to our founding mission as we forge ahead.
we will more vigorously oppose external interference, serve the [city's] development and put people at the centre, and join hands with the hong kong community to take diplomatic work related to hong kong to new heights.
"liaison office deputy director tan tieniu, speaking at the same forum, said the security law and electoral overhaul had helped protect the city's constitutional order, prosperity and stability.
in her own speech, lam said that even though hong kong had faced unprecedented challenges since the 2019 social unrest, the central government and communist party had stayed true to the original intent of one country, two systems.
"now that hong kong has been put back on its right course under the party's declared institutional strength of one country, two systems, we should make our contribution to the chinese dream by embracing patriotism, national pride, team spirit and hard work and putting the people's interest first," she added.
more from south china morning post:beijing's new chief diplomat in hong kong says battle against 'foreign forces' his top priority, dubs 2019 protests a 'colour revolution'beijing's anti-sanctions law will give us, others 'a taste of their own medicine', hong kong leader carrie lam saysnational security law: hong kong, beijing tell britain to 'abandon colonial nostalgia' after report accuses authorities of stifling dissentthis article beijing's top diplomat in hong kong doubles down on warnings to 'foreign forces' in first public appearance first appeared on south china morning postfor the latest news from the south china morning post download our mobile app.
copyright 2021. australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oblackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
hong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
alina chan isn't saying the coronavirus definitely leaked from a lab in china.
what she is saying is what more scientists have grown comfortable discussing publicly: there's no clear evidence either way.
"i know a lot of people want to have a smoking gun," said chan, a postdoctoral associate at the broad institute of mit and harvard university who specializes in genetic engineering and has been vocal about the need to investigate the possibility of a lab leak.
"it's more like breadcrumbs everywhere, and they're not always leading in one direction.
it's like the whole floor is covered in breadcrumbs.
"chan was one of 18 scientists who published a letter in the journal science last month calling for a more in-depth investigation into the virus's origin that takes into account theories about both natural occurrence and laboratory spillovers.
the letter helped kick-start a new round of calls to investigate the "lab leak hypothesis," including demands from president joe biden and several leading scientists.
and while public discussion of a potential lab leak has shifted significantly in recent months, as more people pay attention to a theory that was originally promulgated by former president donald trump and his followers, the scientific evidence has remained unchanged, according to interviews with five virologists who have experience in microbiology, infectious disease ecology and viral evolution.
the researchers offered near-uniform summations that few conclusions can be drawn based on the available scientific evidence, but they noted that the context and circumstances of the origin debate have changed, particularly as critics point out that china hasn't been fully transparent about the earliest days of the pandemic.
the shift reflects how some scientists who previously avoided the topic or were quick to dismiss it are grappling with enduring uncertainties about the virus's origin, free from the politicization that clouded such discussions during the trump administration.
chan said there had been trepidation among some scientists about publicly discussing the lab leak hypothesis for fear that their words could be misconstrued or used to support racist rhetoric about how the coronavirus emerged.
trump fueled accusations that the wuhan institute of virology, a research lab in the city where the first covid-19 cases were reported, was connected to the outbreak, and on numerous occasions he called the pathogen the "wuhan virus" or "kung flu.
""at the time, it was scarier to be associated with trump and to become a tool for racists, so people didn't want to publicly call for an investigation into lab origins," she said.
now, more scientists are comfortable confronting the gamut of plausible theories — particularly given china's opacity about the topic — although many still caution that entertaining the idea of a lab leak requires clear scientific proof, which hasn't materialized.
"there has been no new evidence over the past 16 months that the virus had a lab origin," said maciej boni, an associate professor of biology at penn state university, who specializes in tropical disease epidemiology and viral evolution.
a number of theories about how the virus may have emerged have been thrown out.
most that remain fall under three possible scenarios:the virus evolved naturally before spilling over into humans from an infected animal.
the virus evolved naturally, but an employee at the lab became infected from a sample and accidentally "leaked" it into the community.
scientists at the lab were manipulating virus samples and accidentally or intentionally released the pathogen.
what makes the virus's origin a complicated matter is that the various threads can be difficult to reconcile.
while most of the virologists who spoke to nbc news said the coronavirus probably evolved in nature, they agreed that it's reasonable to look into the possibility that it came from a lab.
at the heart of those suspicions is the wuhan institute of virology, a research facility founded in the 1950s that was the first in china to receive the highest level of biosafety clearance.
the institute's lab has a biosafety level of 4 (known as bsl-4, the highest level), meaning it is equipped to study the world's highest-risk infectious agents and toxins, those that require the strictest biocontainment measures.
it's that designation, and the lab's location in the city where the outbreak was first reported, that made the institute an early suspect.
"if we had a pandemic that was sourced near to a bsl-4 lab in the u. s. , the first thing you would be asking is if they were working with that pathogen in that lab," said an expert on evolutionary genetics of infectious diseases, andrew read, a professor of biology at penn state.
still, he cautioned that while a lab leak is plausible, that doesn't necessarily mean it's the most probable explanation.
boni said it's still more likely that the virus passed from an animal, such as a bat, into humans.
he said his experiences conducting field epidemiology work on avian influenza in vietnam from 2008 to 2016 showed how close contact with wildlife, such as in "wet markets" around the world where outdoor stalls sell meat, seafood and live animals for consumption, can create easy opportunities for pathogens to spill into human populations.
"going back over the past 25 years of emerging viruses that have crossed species boundaries from animals to humans, the most common route is something like a wet market or farm or some other form of human and animal contact," he said.
"these are far more common than lab accidents.
"the first cluster of covid-19 infections was traced to the huanan seafood market in wuhan, leading to early speculation that it may have been where the virus jumped from animals into humans.
but chinese researchers have since found that several of the earliest known cases of covid-19 in the city were unrelated to the market, meaning the virus may already have been spreading in the community.
a joint investigation this year by the world health organization and china focused on the possibility of a zoonotic, or animal, origin.
the team's report, released in march, found that the virus probably emerged in bats and jumped to an intermediary animal before it spread to humans.
the team also downplayed the theory that the virus leaked from the wuhan institute, describing the scenario as "extremely unlikely. "
but the who-led investigation was heavily criticized for not doing enough to review all plausible hypotheses.
and the validity of the findings was questioned because the investigation hinged on china's cooperation, and the chinese government didn't give researchers access to full records and raw data.
chan and 17 other scientists, including ralph baric, a virologist at the university of north carolina, chapel hill; david relman, a microbiologist at stanford university; and akiko iwasaki, an immunologist at yale university, signed the letter in science in response to the shortcomings of the who report.
within the scientific community, the letter was seen as something of a turning point, lending credibility to the hypothesis that the virus may have escaped from the lab.
"i think it had a big effect," chan said.
"i think it literally helped all the people who wanted to investigate this by saying: this is not bogus.
top scientists think this is plausible.
"calls for a more in-depth investigation into both the natural origin theory and the lab leak hypothesis have been fueled, at least in part, by growing circumstantial evidence uncovered over the last year by a band of anonymous internet sleuths.
last year, a member of the amateur investigative team, which calls itself drastic (short for decentralized radical autonomous search team investigating covid-19), combed through online records and found a 2013 thesis by a postgraduate student at kunming medical university in china that described six workers at a mine in yunnan province who fell ill with severe pneumonia caused by a "sars-like" coronavirus.
three of the mine workers eventually died, but not much else is known about the situation.
in research published in november by scientists at the wuhan institute, serum samples from four of the mine workers were tested and showed no trace of sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19.
separately, a u. s.  intelligence report disclosed that three researchers at the wuhan institute sought treatment at a hospital after they fell ill in november 2019, as the wall street journal first reported in may.
during the who-led investigation this year, officials at the wuhan institute said all staff members had tested negative for covid-19 antibodies.
its leaders have been adamant that the virus didn't escape from the facility, but the chinese government's reluctance to share records and test results has cast suspicion over what the lab's scientists knew — and when.
although they are far from conclusive, the intelligence report and the mine workers' mysterious illnesses have been presented as circumstantial evidence that scientists at the wuhan institute were studying risky coronaviruses similar to sars-cov-2 and that the virus may have escaped from the lab, perhaps after an employee became infected.
the mine incident also drew attention to a separate sars-like virus that chinese researchers collected from a bat in yunnan province in 2013.  shi zhengli, a prominent bat researcher who directs the center for emerging infectious diseases at the wuhan institute of virology, co-wrote a paper published in february 2020 detailing the virus, known as ratg13.
the genomes of ratg13 and sars-cov-2 were found to be 96.
2 percent alike, prompting some to wonder whether the pandemic had been caused by lab experiments on ratg13 that had gone awry.
the similarities between the two viruses also raised questions about the possibility that chinese researchers were conducting "gain of function" experiments, which involve manipulating viruses in a lab to make them more dangerous or more transmissible to understand their inner workings.
gain-of-function research isn't altogether uncommon in virology, but such experiments are controversial because of the risks.
a scientist could, for example, unwittingly or by design create a pathogen that is better adapted to invade human cells or cause more severe infections.
but there are real benefits to gain-of-function research, said robert garry, a virologist at tulane university in new orleans.
for one, understanding the characteristics of a virus and its transmissibility is critical to developing vaccines and lifesaving drugs, he said.
he said most virologists take the responsibility of such experiments seriously.
"it's not the wild west," he said.
"it's very highly regulated.
"in 2014, the u. s.  national institutes of health imposed a moratorium on gain-of-function research after two lab accidents involving anthrax and a strain of h5n1 bird flu occurred at the centers for disease control and prevention.
funding for gain-of-function experiments was paused for three years while the government conducted safety assessments.
the ban was reversed in january 2017, during the trump administration, after an independent science advisory panel found that the overall risk to public safety was low.
while it's possible that scientists at the wuhan institute were making genetic tweaks to samples, a coronavirus like ratg13 that is 96.
2 percent similar still can't easily be altered to create sars-cov-2, garry said.
"taking a virus that is 96 percent similar and sequencing and converting it to sars-cov-2 is impossible," he said.
"that kind of evolution takes maybe three to five decades in nature.
you just can't force that in a lab.
"dr.  charles chiu, a virologist at the university of california, san francisco, added that the differences between ratg13 and sars-cov-2 exceed the capabilities of genetic engineering.
"the differences are scattered throughout the genome," he said.
"there's a big difference between 96 percent similar and 100 percent identical.
we just don't have the ability to make those kinds of changes.
"in other words, the experts say, it's unlikely that scientists could snip and splice bits of a virus or tweak a pathogen's genome in such a way that would create sars-cov-2, even if researchers were using closely related coronaviruses.
"we're very good at imitating nature — we have, for instance, been able to synthesize polio virus — but our ability to manipulate or change the sequence of viruses is still limited," chiu said.
chan, of the broad institute, wasn't ready to rule out the possibility of genetic engineering, saying that if minor tweaks were being made to virus samples, it could be difficult to detect the fingerprints of such work.
"you can do recombination without leaving a trace," she said.
"basically, it's like you can 3d-print clothing with no seams, so it's difficult to tell if anything has been manipulated or stitched together in a lab.
"chan acknowledged that it's "definitely possible" that the virus evolved in nature but added that all options should be kept on the table because neither the natural origins theory nor the lab leak hypothesis can be ruled out.
"all the evidence right now is circumstantial, and it's consistent with both lab and natural origins," she said.
"there's precedents for lab leaks, the genetic data could swing either way, and the epidemiological data, which is how it unfolded in wuhan, can also swing either way.
none of this is pointing in any one direction.
"and it may be years, or even decades, before scientists have any clarity on the topic.
the ebola virus, which was discovered in 1976, is thought to have spread to humans from bats or nonhuman primates, but scientists still haven't identified the origin from a specific animal host.
"the key issue here is that we simply don't have the information to make really firm conclusions," said chiu, of the university of california, san francisco, referring to covid-19.
"unless we know exactly what happened, we're simply making guesses.
"new documents and interviews show how the president and his senior aides cherry-picked evidence and sidelined the government's own virus sleuths.
two house republicans — including conference chair elise stefanik (r-n. y. )
— are introducing a bill tuesday to sanction top chinese health officials until they allow an investigation into whether the coronavirus originated in a wuhan lab, according to a copy of the bill text obtained by axios.
why it matters: the lab-leak theory has regained prominence in both the scientific and political worlds, after the wall street journal reported that three scientists who worked at the wuhan institute of virdiscussions that focus on countering a chinese invasion of taiwan risk overlooking a threat that doesn't require beijing to storm any beaches.
china's shenzhou 12 mission carrying three astronauts launched into orbit on thursday morning beijing time.
why it matters: astronauts nie haisheng, liu boming and tang hongbo are set to occupy china's new space station.
this will be the country's longest crewed space mission ever and the first in almost five years.
get market news worthy of your time with axios markets.
subscribe for free.
it marks another significant step in the space program drive of the ruling chinese communist party, seen as acalifornia has pursued a more measured approach to reopening than the hype would have it, seeking to balance the need to get businesses back on their feet while recognizing that the best way to lure customers and workers out of hibernation is by ensuring they feel safe from the virus itself.
note to self: don't leave beer in the car while in bear country.
the chinese mission to the european union on tuesday denounced a nato statement that declared beijing a "security challenge," saying china is actually a force for peace but will defend itself if threatened.
the chinese news release said the nato statement was a "slander on china's peaceful development, a misjudgment of the international situation and (nato's) own role, and a continuation of the cold war mentality and organizational political psychology. "
nato allies joined the united states on monday in formally scolding beijing as a "constant security challenge.
"in just a few blink-and-you'll-miss-it moments, a future time-traveling baddie was revealed.
gov.
laura kelly wanted another extension but senate president ty masterson canceled the meeting.
nfl network's nate burleson sees the veteran receiver bouncing back from two subpar seasons.
gov.
ron desantis and the florida cabinet on tuesday rejected a legal ruling that loomed as a massive roadblock to miami-dade county's controversial plan to run a major highway through wetlands fringing the everglades.
nestled in a recent press release from the treasury department announcing new staff appointments was a familiar name within the white house, the son of president biden's counselor and longtime aide, steve ricchetti.
why it matters: j. j.  ricchetti will serve as a special assistant in treasury's office of legislative affairs.
he's now the fourth immediate family member working in the biden administration.
stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with axios markets.
subscribe forthree highly vaccinated countries have seen a surge in cases with the shots, prompting uncomfortable questions for their chinese manufacturers.
china launched the first piece of its new space station in april, and it's already sending astronauts up to live there.
chris paul reportedly has entered the nba's health and safety protocols, which could limit his availability for the phoenix suns in the western conference finals.
roblox falls hard on wednesday on disappointing user data.
here's the support level it has to hold and the resistance level it needs to reclaim.
former president insists he is working on a 'much more important project'bogota (reuters) -the primary issue with lagging covid-19 vaccinations in the americas is access to doses, not acceptance of vaccine safety or efficacy, the pan american health organization (paho) said on wednesday, urging donor countries to send shots as soon as possible.
the group of seven rich nations said on sunday they will provide 1 billion vaccine doses over the next year to help poorer countries inoculate their populations.
"i want to be clear that the primary issue in the americas is vaccine access, not vaccine acceptance," paho director carissa etienne said during the organization's weekly news conference.
(bloomberg) -- north korean leader kim jong un said the country's food situation is "getting tense" due to typhoons last year that wiped out crops, comments that underscored farm-sector shortfalls made worse by his decision to close borders to prevent covid.
kim told a plenary meeting of the central committee of his ruling workers' party of korea "the agricultural sector failed to fulfill its grain production plan," and now is "high time to give full play to the indomitable revolutionary spirit asimple enough, now the tricky bit: diving four menus deep into the touchscreen to fettle with the traction control and stability control settings.
yes, volkswagen removed the age-old "tcs" hard button from the mk 8 gti's interior.
turning traction control and stability control off in the 2022 vw gti requires that you first enter the "vehicle" menu in the touchscreen, swipe one page over, tap the "brakes" section, open a dropdown menu, and only then you are allowed to put esc in sport mode, or turn it completely off.
scammers have continued to target people in singapore during the pandemic and are now weaving plots involving vaccines and vaccination drives into their narratives.
they have recently switched from purporting to be chinese officials to being ministry of health (moh) officials.
this is an extension of vaccine-related scams that the ministry had warned about earlier this year.
moh had said it was aware of websites, e-mails, sms text messages and phone calls falsely claiming to offer registration for vaccination.
last month, a person reported receiving a robocall claiming to be from moh to scamalert.
sg, the anti-scam website operated by the national crime prevention council.
according to the report dated may 19, the call claimed moh had been trying to contact the person to get a vaccine jab and instructed the person to press "9" to get in touch with the authorities.
the automated message was in both english and mandarin.
the person who reported the call, however, had already received both doses of the vaccine and urged others not to fall for the scam.
ms carolyn misir, a principal psychologist at the police psychological services department, said scammers use several persuasion techniques that lead victims deeper into the scam's narrative.
"the process of the scam and persuasion techniques used are quite similar to the china officials impersonation scam, with some variation to include the covid-19 vaccine," she said.
"victims may be given a case reference number and the actual medical term of an antiviral medicine such as remdesivir, so that the victim believes the legitimacy and authority of the caller.
"the straits times understands that while vaccine-related scams are known to the police, there have been few victims who have lost money to such ruses.
however, mr tom kellermann, the head of cyber-security strategy at software company vmware, warned that the public should still be wary, as those behind such ploys may be after personal information which is then sold online.
"the vaccine has only put a larger target on the healthcare industry's back," he said.
"in singapore.
.
.
the accelerated vaccine roll-out has led to cyber criminals attempting to steal data and private information.
"he added that scams involving the healthcare industry and vaccines can have serious consequences, such as the hampering of the mass vaccination process and loss of confidence in the healthcare system.
"taking the proper precautions is not only in your own interest, but also in the interest of those around you," he said.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
gaza city: israel carried out air strikes on the gaza strip early on wednesday (jun 16) after militants in the palestinian territory sent incendiary balloons into the south of the country, in the first major conflict between the two sides since a flare-up in may in which hundreds were killed.
the strikes were the first under the new coalition government headed by naftali bennett, whotook over on sundayafter ousting former prime minister benjamin netanyahu.
and they come as more than a thousand ultranationalist demonstrators bearing israeli flags poured into jerusalem's flashpoint old city on tuesday, with scores of police deployed and international monitors urging calm.
according to palestinian sources, israel's air force targeted at least one site east of khan yunis in the south of the gaza strip, which is home to about two million people.
an afp photojournalist in khan yunis saw the explosions.
the israeli defence force said that in response to the "arson balloons", its "fighter jets struck military compounds belonging to the hamas terror organisation".
it added that "facilities and meeting sites for terror operatives" in khan yunis were targeted.
there was no indication of casualties so far.
local firefighters said the incendiary balloons caused around 20 fires in southern israel.
the violence marks the first major flare-up between israel and palestinian militants since a ceasefire came into place in may, ending 11 days of heavy fighting that killed 260 palestinians, according to gaza authorities, and 13 people in israel, the police and army there said.
restraintin annexed east jerusalem, more than one thousand people took to the streets in a delayed and controversial march by nationalist and far-right activists.
the us and un had called for restraint before the march, which bennett's new administration had authorised.
with tensions high, israeli police were deployed in heavy numbers, blocking roads and firing stun grenades and foam-tipped bullets to remove palestinians from the main route.
medics said 33 palestinians were wounded and police said two officers were injured and 17 people arrested.
the demonstration triggered protests in the west bank and gaza strip and prompted rebukes and warnings from israel's allies.
the so-called march of the flags celebrates the anniversary of the city's "reunification" after israel captured east jerusalem from jordan in 1967 and annexed it, a move not recognised by most of the international community.
tuesday's demonstration was originally scheduled for early may but cancelled twice amid police opposition and threats from hamas, the islamist group that controls the palestinian enclave of gaza.
throngs of mostly young religious men sang, danced and waved flags at the damascus gate entrance to the old city that was cleared of its usual palestinian crowds.
some chanted "death to arabs" before others quieted them.
'provocation'the march comes just two days after netanyahu was ousted after 12 straight years in power, toppled by an ideologically divided coalition including, for the first time in israel's history, an arab party.
bennett is himself a jewish nationalist but netanyahu's allies accused the new premier of treachery for allying with arabs and the left.
some demonstrators on tuesday carried signs reading "bennett the liar".
yair lapid, the architect of the new government, tweeted he believed the march had to be allowed but that "it's inconceivable how you can hold an israeli flag and shout, 'death to arabs' at the same time.
"mansour abbas, whose four-seat raam islamic party was vital to the coalition, called tuesday's march a "provocation" that should have been cancelled.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur the ball is still in prime minister muhyiddin yassin's court, but the odds for a winning shot has narrowed after malaysia's royals indicated on wednesday that emergency rule will end in august, and the government's legitimacy needs to be tested in parliament sooner rather than later.
the statements by both the king and his fellow rulers of the nine states in the federation, who take turns to be the monarch, came just a day after the premier vowed to convene the legislature by october, when it is expected that the worst covid-19 wave to hit the country has eased and 40 per cent of the population had been vaccinated.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a woman fell out with an operator of an investment scheme involving hotels in mecca after working for him for three months.
masita samsudin, 49, later transferred funds from the investment scheme into her own bank account, and withdrew more than $213,000 of it in cash.
she was jailed for a year on wednesday (june 16), after she had been earlier convicted of dishonestly misappropriating the money.
court documents state that in february 2015, masita was introduced to the investment scheme in malaysia by an acquaintance.
it involved collecting money from investors and using the sums to invest in hotels in the holy city of mecca in saudi arabia.
depending on how much profit the hotels made, the investors would then be paid dividends.
the acquaintance told masita that she would get monetary benefits if she helped run the scheme in singapore.
she later notified an operator of the scheme, identified in court documents as sheikh saidey, of her interest in doing so.
under mr saidey's instructions, she registered a sole proprietorship named safwah orchid resources under her name on feb 25, 2015.  court documents state that the business was cancelled two years later.
masita also opened a bank account under safwah orchid resources, which she knew would be used to hold funds from the scheme's investors and their investment returns.
court documents state that masita worked for mr saidey between the end of february and may 2015, where she was involved in paying dividends to the scheme's investors.
while she was not paid a monthly salary, she received a commission of $50 for every us$1,000 transferred into safwah orchid resources' bank account.
but she was paid less than $10,000 in total.
masita and mr saidey later fell out in june 2015 and she stopped working for him.
some time between november and december 2015, she decided to open the safwah orchid resources bank account statements that were sent to her home.
after she saw that the bank account had a balance of more than $400,000 as at oct 31, 2015, she became angry with mr saidey as she believed he was not being honest with her about the business in singapore.
masita closed the bank account and transferred the balance of about $261,000 into her personal account in dec 22, 2015. she later took out the $213,000.
she has not made restitution to date.
during the trial, masita's lawyer argued that she had been permitted by mr saidey to take the $261,000 sum.
but the prosecution submitted that there was no evidence of such authorisation, adding that her account in court and earlier statements to the police were inconsistent.
the subsequent withdrawal of $213,000 was therefore dishonest, the deputy public prosecutors argued.
for her offence, masita could have been jailed for up to two years, or fined, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
jiuquan: the first astronauts for china's new space station blasted off on thursday (jun 17) for the country's longest crewed mission to date, a landmark step in establishing beijing as a major space power.
the trio launched on a long march-2f rocket for the tiangong station, where they will spend three months, in a blast-off broadcast live on state tv.
lift-off happened at 9.
22am local time from the jiuquan launch centre in northwest china's gobi desert, with the rocket lifting off in clouds of smoke against a blue sky.
after about 10 minutes it reached orbit and the space craft separated from the rocket, to loud applause in the control room among rows of blue-suited engineers.
state broadcaster cctv showed a live feed from inside the spacecraft, with the three astronauts lifting their helmet visors and one smiling and waving at the camera.
another floated a pen just off his lap in zero-gravity as he browsed the flight manual.
cameras outside the craft broadcast live images of the earth below.
"according to reports from the beijing aerospace control centre, the long march-2f rocket has sent the shenzhou-12 manned spacecraft to the preset orbit," said zhang zhifen, director of the jiuquan satellite launch centre.
"the solar panels unfolded successfully and now we declare the shenzhou-12 mission a complete success.
"at a ceremony before blastoff, the three astronauts already wearing their space suits greeted a crowd of supporters including family members and staff from the space station.
a crowd of space workers and their families had gathered for the ceremony and sang the patriotic song "without the chinese communist party, there would be no new china", waving chinese flags and flowers.
the mission's commander is nie haisheng, a decorated air force pilot in the people's liberation army who has already participated in two space missions.
the two other members are also members of the military.
space lifetheir shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the tianhe main section of the space station, which was placed in orbit on apr 29. the module has separate living spaces for each of them, a treadmill for exercise, and a communication centre for emails and video calls with ground control.
it is china's first crewed mission in nearly five years.
the launch represents a matter of huge prestige in china, as beijing prepares to mark the 100th anniversary of the ruling communist party on jul 1 with a massive propaganda campaign.
to prepare for the mission, the crew has undergone more than 6,000 hours of training, including hundreds of underwater somersaults in full space gear.
the chinese space agency is planning a total of 11 launches through to the end of next year, including three more manned missions which will deliver two lab modules to expand the 70-tonne station, and supplies and crew members.
the first crew will test and maintain the systems onboard, conduct spacewalks and undertake scientific experiments.
china's space ambitions have been fuelled in part by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station (iss), a collaboration between the us, russia, canada, europe and japan.
it is due for retirement after 2024, even though nasa said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong will be much smaller than the iss, and is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    tuesday, 15 jun 2021
                dickson yeo.
stsingapore (the straits times/ann): a singaporean man who had worked for china's intelligence services since 2016 has been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for being a threat to singapore.
dickson yeo, 40, had acted as a paid agent of a foreign state, said the internal security department (isd) on tuesday (june 15).
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year (2020), after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various tasks given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains," said the department.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said that yeo was tasked to source information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
he had approached various individuals in singapore to try and obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports.
yeo had set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities, as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
"he had also tried, but failed, to secure employment in the singapore government sector to further his information-gathering activities.
yeo had carried out these activities over a period from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019," said isd.
the department said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's continued detention is necessary to allow isd to find out the full extent of his activities.
during a trip to beijing in 2015, yeo was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy at the national university of singapore at that time.
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year, after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
us court documents show he admitted to being offered money in exchange for political reports and information, initially on south-east asia, before focusing on the us.
he also made numerous trips to meet the chinese agents he was in contact with, trawled social networking sites to find targets and was also directed to set up a fake consulting firm, resolute consulting the same name as a renowned us firm.
he then got a post as a visiting scholar at george washington university in washington and travelled to the us to continue his efforts.
living in the washington area from january 2019 to july 2019, yeo exploited networking opportunities in the area to spot and assess individuals from whom he could extract information.
he was questioned by immigration officers at the john f.  kennedy airport in new york, when he returned to the us in november 2019. spooked, he booked a flight to return the next day, when he was approached by federal bureau of investigation agents.
he agreed to be interviewed and was taken into custody.
news of yeo's arrest and guilty plea was announced last july and he was sentenced last october.
he maintained before the court that he was supportive of the chinese cause and claimed that he did not betray singapore.
when announcing his arrest upon returning to singapore, isd said yeo had revealed to us investigators that his previous intelligence taskings targeted other states apart from the us.
"the singapore government takes a very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government and engages in activities at the behest of the foreign power that is inimical to our national security and interests, including bilateral relations," said the isd on tuesday.
the straits times/asia news network 
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                china
                                                                ,
                                                                                                spy
                                                                ,
                                                                                                dickson yeo
                                                                ,
                                                                                                isa
                                                                ,
                                                                                                detenttion



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
jakarta: more than 350 indonesian doctors and healthcare workers have contracted covid-19 despite being vaccinated with sinovac and dozens have been hospitalised, officials said, as concerns rise about the efficacy of some vaccines against more virulent virus strains.
most of the doctors were asymptomatic and self-isolating at home, said badai ismoyo, head of the kudus district health office in central java, but dozens were in hospital with high fevers and declining oxygen saturation levels.
kudus is battling an outbreak believed to be driven by the more transmissible delta variant which has pushed bed occupancy rates above 90 per cent in the district.
designated as a priority group, indonesian healthcare workers were among the first to be vaccinated when the inoculation drive started in january.
almost all have received the covid-19 vaccine developed by chinese biopharmaceutical company sinovac, according to the indonesian medical association.
while the number of indonesian healthcare workers dying from covid-19 has decreased significantly – dropping from 158 deaths this january to 13 this may, according to data initiative group laporcovid-19 – public health experts say the java hospitalisations are cause for concern.
"the data shows they have the delta variant so it is no surprise that the breakthrough infection is higher than before because as we know the majority of healthcare workers in indonesia got sinovac, and we still don't know yet how effective it is in the real world against the delta variant," said dicky budiman, an epidemiologist from australia's griffith university.
a spokesperson from sinovac and indonesia's ministry of health were not immediately available for comment on the efficacy of sinovac's coronavac against newer coronavirus variants.
grappling with one of the worst outbreaks in asia, with more than 1.
9 million cases and 53,000 deaths, there has been a heavy toll on indonesia's doctors and nurses with 946 deaths.
many are now experiencing pandemic fatigue and taking an increasingly laissez-faire approach to health protocols after being vaccinated, said lenny ekawati, from laporcovid-19.
"that phenomenon happens quite often these days, not only within the community but also healthcare workers," she said.
"they think because they are vaccinated that they are safe.
"but as more cases of the highly transmissible delta variant are identified in the world's fourth most populous nation, the data is starting to tell a different story.
across indonesia, at least five doctors and one nurse have died from covid-19 despite being vaccinated, according to the data initiative group, although one had only received their first shot.
in kudus, one senior doctor has died, said the indonesian medical association, although it is understood he had a comorbidity.
in the indonesian capital jakarta, radiologist dr prijo sidipratomo told reuters he knew of at least half a dozen doctors in the city who had been hospitalised with covid-19 in the past month despite being vaccinated, with one currently being treated in the intensive care unit.
"it is alarming for us because we cannot rely on vaccinations only," he said, urging people to strictly adhere to health protocols.
weeks after the eid al-fitr holidays, indonesia has experienced a surge in cases, with the positivity rate exceeding 23 per cent on wednesday (jun 16) and daily cases nearing 10,000, the highest since late february.
in its latest situation report the world health organization called for indonesia to implement a stricter lockdown with increased transmission due to variants of concern and a "drastic increase in bed occupancy rates" necessitating urgent action.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
london • prime minister boris johnson has pushed back by four weeks his plan to lift coronavirus restrictions as a more infectious variant spreads rapidly across britain, threatening to undermine the country's effort to vaccinate its way out of the pandemic.
the government in london was forced to act after modelling showed that hospital admissions could reach similar levels to the first wave of infections in the spring last year a peak of more than 3,000 a day if mr johnson stuck to his schedule to end social distancing rules next monday.
in a televised briefing last monday, he said there was no choice but to delay his plan until july 19. the aim is to prevent a surge in hospitalisations and avoid adding thousands to what is already europe's highest death toll by allowing more people to get their second covid-19 vaccine dose.
mr johnson said he is "pretty confident" there will not be another postponement, while some members of his governing conservative party hit out at the impact on the economy.
mr johnson said: "the objective of this short delay is to use these valuable, crucial weeks to save thousands of lives lives that would otherwise be lost, i am afraid by vaccinating millions more people as fast as we can.
"while britain gained global attention with its rapid vaccine roll-out, the country is now emerging as a less enviable test case in europe for dealing with the highly transmissible delta variant first identified in india.
the world health organisation's europe director, dr hans kluge, warned last week that the delta variant was "poised to take hold" across the continent.
the issue for britain is that its inoculation programme lengthened the time between doses in an effort to get as many shots into as many people as quickly as possible.
the new variant has changed the calculus after evidence emerged that two injections are required for protection.
the government is now speeding up second shots.
the revised lockdown timetable is expected to go to a vote in parliament today, and mr johnson is likely to face anger from his colleagues for backtracking on what they dubbed "freedom day".
the government also said it will not extend financial support for businesses despite the delay.
a furlough programme is due to run until the end of september, though employers will have to contribute more from next month.
not extending the financial assistance is "unjust, unconscionable and unsupportable", tory mp bob neill said in the house of commons late on monday.
economists, however, said the government's decision is unlikely to delay britain's recovery from the worst recession in 300 years.
mr johnson had planned to drop all legal limits on social contact this month, in the final step of his road map out of lockdown.
that would have meant nightclubs reopening, people lining up at the bar again, full stadiums and big conferences back in the diaries.
there was a reprieve for weddings: the 30-person limit will be lifted to allow an unlimited number of guests, as long as there is no dancing and social distancing is respected.
covid-19 cases have been rising rapidly.
more than nine in 10 new cases in britain are of the delta variant, according to public health england, and these infections are doubling every 4.
5 days in parts of the country.
the delta variant is 64 per cent more transmissible indoors than the previously dominant alpha variant first identified in south-east england, the agency said, and early data showed "a significantly increased risk of hospitalisation".
the government will review the data again on june 28, with the possibility of easing restrictions on july 5, though that is unlikely.
right now, infections in england are growing 64 per cent every week nationally, mr johnson said.
the key is whether positive cases lead to more people in intensive care and ultimately more deaths, or whether vaccines have broken that link enough.
in the meantime, all eyes are on the speed of vaccination.
almost 80 per cent of adults have received at least one dose, while 57 per cent have received two.
the government aims to fully vaccinate two-thirds of adults in britain by july 19.  all over-18s will be offered a first dose by then, too.
bloombergjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a malaysian court will rule wednesday on a challenge by the family of a french-irish teenager over an inquest verdict that she died by misadventure after vanishing in the jungle.
the body of nora quoirin, a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and are seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict -- suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan is expected to hand down his ruling at 5:00 pm (0900 gmt) at the high court in seremban, outside kuala lumpur, via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
"the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents," she said.
malaysian police have stuck to their version of events -- that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
bur-sr/hgwhen 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
manchester city kick off the 2021-22 premier league season against tottenham on saturday, august 14. city finished 12 points clear of second-placed manchester united to clinch their fifth title last term, and can lay down a marker for the new campaign by seeing off spurs in north london.
pep guardiola's side will host newly-promoted norwich city seven days later, before they prepare to see out the month with a heavyweight clash against arsenal at etihad stadium.
city have another testing three fixtures to contend with in september, starting with a trip to fa cup winners leicester city, which is followed by a home game against southampton and a trip to european champions chelsea.
liverpool are due to welcome the premier league holders to anfield on october 2, and guardiola will likely already have one eye on the first manchester derby date of the season on november 6. city will begin their december schedule with favourable fixtures against watford, wolves, leeds united and newcastle, but have leicester to deal with once again on boxing day.
the champions are pencilled in for a trip to arsenal on new year's day, and will play host to chelsea 14 days later in what could be a crucial two games in the overall title picture.
tottenham, who are reportedly set to be coached by paulo fonseca, are due to travel to the etihad on february 19, and city will travel to everton seven days later before their second derby meeting with united on march 5. city have another crucial meeting with liverpool scheduled for april 9, and will conclude the season on may 22 with a home game against dean smith's aston villa.
november 6, 2021 is the date of the first manchester derby of the 2021-22 premier league season and it will take place at old trafford.
the etihad stadium will play host to the second manchester derby of the campaign on march 5, 2022.
singapore — while singapore continues to be religiously diverse, more residents are identifying as having no religion, said the department of statistics (dos) in a report released on wednesday (16 june).
among singapore citizens and permanent residents aged 15 and above in 2020, those with no religious affiliation made up 20 per cent, an increase from 17 per cent in 2010, said the dos in the first statistical publication on its census 2020 findings.
within the ethnic groups, 25.
7 per cent of chinese identified as having no religion, while 0.
4 per cent of malays and 2.
2 per cent of indians said the same in 2020.  meanwhile, 14.
6 per cent of those from other ethnic groups said they had no religion.
among the resident population aged 15 and above in 2020, buddhists were the largest group at 31.
1 per cent, followed by christians at 18.
9 per cent and muslims at 15.
6 per cent.
taoists comprised 8.
8 per cent, while hindus made up 5 per cent, with those prescribing to other religions accounting for 0.
6 per cent.
the proportion of muslims and christians also grew between 2010 and 2020 while the proportion of buddhist and taoists dipped.
among the chinese, 40.
4 per cent identified as buddhists, while 21.
6 per cent were christian, 11.
6 per cent taoist and 0.
5 per cent muslim.
among the malays, 98.
8 per cent identified as muslim, while 0.
1 per cent said they were buddhists and 0.
4 per cent had no religion.
for indians, 57.
3 per cent identified as hindu, while 23.
4 per cent were muslim, 12.
6 per cent were christian and 0.
7 per cent were buddhist.
another 3.
9 per cent of indians identified with some other religion and 2.
2 per cent said they had no religion.
the dos report is aimed at providing broad trends and changes relating to the demographic characteristics, marriage and fertility, education, literacy, home language and religion of singapore's resident population – referring to citizens and permanent residents – between 2010 and 2020.  the census data was collated from 150,000 households.
more findings from census 2020 will be shared on friday.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:man who fled to thailand to avoid drug charges cheated mask buyers in singaporeall 14 new covid cases in singapore in communitylandlord who kept exposing himself to female tenant jailed and fineddickson yeo, s'porean who spied for china, to remain behind bars'not possible to have fair hearing': woman without mask at mbsburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (17 june) confirmed 27 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,366. twenty of them are local cases in the community.
of them, 13 – out of 18 linked cases – had already been quarantined earlier.
seven remaining cases are imported, including three singapore residents.
thursday marks the 53rd consecutive day with local cases reported.
this story will be updated later.
finance minister and multi-ministry taskforce (mtf) co-chair lawrence wong in a facebook video post on wednesday raised the possibility of a delay in the next stage of singapore's re-opening, due to the growing cluster at the food centre.
with this in mind, wong said the government is "evaluating the timeline and the scope of our second stage of opening" and, in consultation with public health experts, would announce its decision soon.
with 20 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on wednesday, 61,931 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 146 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 228 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 116 confirmed cases reported from 10 to 16 june, 45 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 62 have tested negative, and nine serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:covid quarantine procedures confusing, inconsistent: singapore residentslawrence wong raises possible delay in next stage of reopeningbukit merah view market covid cluster grows to 39 casessinovac vaccine has 2-year shelf life, still being assessed for use in singapore: moh officialburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
a 28-year-old man was arrested over a fight in hougang that left another man injured.
in response to a stomp query, the police said they were alerted to a case of voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon at block 702 hougang avenue 2 on june 9, at 12.
16am.
"a 30-year-old man was conscious when taken to hospital," they added.
"a 28-year-old man was arrested in relation to the case.
"stomp contributor randy shared photos of the incident that were posted on  facebook  .
according to  shin min daily news  , the altercation occurred at a carpark, near a void deck where a funeral wake was taking place.
[embed]https://www.
facebook.
com/singaporebreakingnews/posts/4088332411245996[/embed]residents reported hearing the two men, who are acquainted, in a loud argument.
the suspect had allegedly rushed into the void deck and asked the mourning family if he could 'borrow' a pair of scissors that was on a table.
[[nid:532882]]despite their refusal, the suspect took the scissors and went back to the carpark, where the stabbing took place.
police were then called.
a resident in the vicinity, ms li, said that the assailant continued to rain blows on his victim, who had fallen to the ground.
the suspect was seen picking up a bamboo pole and waving it in the middle of the road before he fled, reported shin min.
he was subsequently arrested after the police traced his whereabouts.
police investigations are ongoing.
shanghai: a pig that became an unlikely national icon in china after surviving 36 days under rubble from a powerful 2008 earthquake has died at the age of 14, sparking an outpouring of emotion on thursday (jun 17).
"zhu jianqiang", or "strong pig", shot to fame after being discovered alive after the 7.
9-magnitude earthquake in south-western sichuan province on may 12, 2008. the earthquake left nearly 90,000 people dead or missing, and the pig's miraculous story, subsisting on a bag of charcoal and rainwater, was hailed as an inspiring symbol of the will to survive.
witnesses said that the young zhu jianqiang had lost so much weight by the time it was pulled from the rubble that it looked more like a goat.
a local museum near the city of chengdu had purchased the famous pig for 3,008 yuan (us$450) and kept it as a tourist attraction while it lived out its days.
it succumbed to "old age and exhaustion" on wednesday night, the museum said on china's twitter-like weibo platform.
in human terms, it was 100 years old, the global times said, citing its breeder.
the celebrity porker was named china's animal of the year in 2008 because it "vividly illustrated the spirit of never giving up".
the weibo hashtag "strong pig died" had drawn nearly 300 million views by midday on thursday and was rising fast.
weibo users hailed it as "the most famous pig in history".
"it is indeed a strong animal, not just for surviving the earthquake, but also for the 13 years of life afterwards," said one popular weibo post.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: singaporean dickson yeo was detained under the internal security act (isa) on jan 29 for acting as a paid agent for a "foreign state", the internal security department (isd) said on tuesday (jun 15).
while isd did not name the foreign state, yeo, 40, was last year sentenced to 14 months' prison in the us for spying for china against the us.
isdarrested yeo after he was deported to singaporeon dec 30 last year after he served his sentence.
it interviewed him to establish if he had engaged in activities prejudicial to singapore's security.
the department said on tuesday that yeo carried out intelligence activities against singapore from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019.  he was tasked to source for information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
"towards this end, he had approached various individuals in singapore in an attempt to obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports," isd said.
yeo also set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
he also tried, but failed, to get a job in the singapore government.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's "continued detention is necessary to facilitate probes into the full extent of his activities".
yeo was jailed in the us on oct 9 last year after admitting to operating illegally as a foreign agent, which can bring up to 10 years in prison.
he was given a relatively light sentence and credited for 11 months already spent in prison because of his cooperation with us authorities and the threat of contracting covid-19 in jail, a us federal judge said then.
in his plea, yeo admitted to working between 2015 and 2019 for chinese intelligence, spotting and assessing americans with access to "valuable non-public information".
they included a civilian working on the us air force's f-35b stealth fighter project, a pentagon army officer with afghanistan experience, and a state department official, all of whom were paid as much as us$2,000 to write reports for yeo.
yeo told these people that the reports were for clients in asia, without revealing that they were in fact for the chinese government.
yeo also told us investigators that his previous intelligence work targeted other asian countries before focusing on the us.
mha said on jul 26 last year that its investigations into yeo's activities did not reveal any direct threat to singapore's security.
recruited while studying at lkysppyeo was recruited by chinese intelligence operatives while studying for a phd at the national university of singapore's lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) in 2015, according to us court documents.
he went on to work for the chinese after he visited beijing to give a presentation on politics.
former top singapore diplomat bilahari kausikan said that yeo's phd supervisor at lkyspp was huang jing.
the professor was identified in 2017 as an "agent of influence for a foreign country" by singapore's ministry of home affairs (mha).
without naming the country, mha said huang "knowingly interacted with intelligence organisations and agents of the foreign country, and cooperated with them to influence the singapore government's foreign policy and public opinion in singapore".
huang gave what he claimed was "privileged information" about the foreign country to prominent and influential singaporeans, including a senior member of lkyspp, with the aim of influencing their opinions in favour of that country, mha said.
huang was permanently banned from singapore and had his permanent residency status revoked, mha said.
huang left singapore in 2017. lkyspp told cna on tuesday evening that it has strengthened "oversight and risk-awareness procedures" in relation to its education and research.
"we maintain an enhanced oversight on academic collaborations and partnerships, both local and overseas, and will also continue to keep a heightened awareness among all our staff and students on the risks of foreign interference," a spokesperson said.
the past incidents involving a former staff member and student showed how different sectors of society, including education, could be potential targets for "foreign subversion", the spokesperson added.
"the school will not tolerate any acts or activities of foreign interference that threaten the country's national security or interests.
"on tuesday, isd said the singapore government takes a "very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government".
this includes those who engage in activities at the behest of the foreign power that may harm singapore's national security and interests, including bilateral relations, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — inconsistent and sometimes conflicting information given by officials enforcing quarantine orders (qos) has left some singapore residents alarmed at the lack of clear communication and apparent gaps in procedures.
two women who were recently quarantined – one of them alongside her family and helper – told yahoo news singapore that they found their recent experiences confusing and frustrating.
multiple online comments by others who have served quarantine also suggest that the women's experiences are not unique.
"the whole thing felt a shambles," said elaine (not her real name), a 35-year-old employment pass holder with a background in healthcare.
"everyone in this new world is working as hard as they possibly can.
but they (personnel overseeing quarantine orders) need better leadership and better communication.
"after going for a family staycation at a hotel from 7-9 may with her husband and two children aged one and four, elaine was notified via text on 14 may of possible exposure to a covid case at the hotel pool.
the family and their helper were then issued a seven-day quarantine order by certis officers.
over multiple calls with certis officers about whether the family home was suitable for quarantine and when their swab tests were taking place, the overall impression elaine had was of a "disorganised" effort.
"the next day, someone turned up with a quarantine order and armbands (which we had to wear).
they installed these little black boxes, which work in tandem with the rfid in the armbands," recalled elaine.
"we said we already had the home app, where you can log your temperature three times a day and it tracks your location.
it felt like we were criminals.
"elaine and her two children were eventually conveyed to a hospital for swab tests, but not her husband.
certis officers were "unhelpful" when she called the local security company and asked why.
"when we called moh (ministry of health), they were much more helpful and sent a nurse around to do swab tests.
"she added, "literally no one told us what would happen if we tested positive.
we were really worried that the kids might be taken away from us if they were positive.
"after multiple calls, elaine obtained negative results for herself and her boys, while the results for her husband and helper came two to three days later.
on 15 may, a day before the qo was to end, a nurse was sent to their home, after elaine had made multiple calls to moh to clarify her family's quarantine status, to conduct swab tests.
her one-year-old son was not tested for a second time as the nurse said it was not necessary.
"they told us we would be fine as long as we didn't get a positive," said elaine, who was informed of her four-year-old son's negative test results on 17 may.
however, the next day, there was a knock at the door in the morning.
"my helper was given a document by a certis officer, and she felt she had to sign it.
they didn't tell her what it was for.
it was an extension of my one-year-old boy's qo.
i called moh, and they couldn't give me any info," said elaine, who noted that the family had been to multiple places since the end of their quarantine.
her husband took their younger son to get tested, where he was told that the extension was likely due to the fact that the boy had not been tested when the family was let out of quarantine.
the boy was eventually cleared.
"the lack of communication is very frustrating.
it really impacts your anxiety levels," said elaine.
a 37-year-old lawyer who only wished to be known as ms wang also endured a "frustrating and confusing" experience after being issued a qo from 18-25 may, following her possible exposure to covid-19.
having confined herself to her room, the mother of two was informed that certis officers would assess her home for quarantine suitability but no one turned up.
at the end of the qo, having received a negative swab result on 21 may, she interacted with her family members.
on 26 may, she received an sms telling her to go for a swab test and that she had been issued another qo from 20-29 may.
after numerous calls to the certis hotline, ms wang was told that her qo would be rescinded if she were to get a negative swab result.
the following day, despite her healthhub app displaying a negative result, a certis officer came to issue her the new qo.
she was then told by two other officers over the phone that the negative result was invalid as her quarantine had been extended and she needed another swab.
after multiple calls, her qo was finally rescinded in the evening.
"you basically have to keep calling until you find someone helpful," said ms wang, who was in a "state of anxiety" for fear of possibly infecting her family members.
"the communication is abysmal.
i understand that they need to do this, but they need to manage the process properly.
these are people's lives.
"alluding to prime minister lee hsien loong's remarks last month that the government will take a more aggressive approach to testing and quarantine, she added, "the current process already seems overstretched.
i think it would be so easy to improve this just by being clear.
if you tell people what to expect, there won't be so much anxiety.
"as neither woman wanted to be identified, their detailed accounts and personal details could not be shared with the moh.
yahoo news singapore asked moh about the volume and nature of complaints it has received regarding the serving and enforcement of qos during phase 2 (heightened alert), which lasted from 16 may to 13 june.
in light of pm lee's remarks on more aggressive testing and quarantine, the ministry was also asked if it is confident that it has sufficient resources to test and quarantine potentially thousands more.
in response, an moh spokesperson said that extensive contact tracing, including leveraging on tracetogether and safeentry records, is a key strategy to cast a wide net to isolate and ring-fence any possible emerging transmissions in the community.
the spokesperson noted that "wider rings" are being drawn around cases to combat the more transmissible strains, while more people are now using tracetogether and safeentry, which provides moh with more data for contact tracing and quarantine.
"this has led to a higher number of persons under quarantine (puqs), resulting in delays in the testing and conveyance to quarantine facilities," said the ministry.
"we seek the public's understanding and patience.
we will continue to improve our operating processes and improve communications between the various agencies involved in managing the quarantine process.
"stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:covid swab test personnel not trained to deal with special needs people: rahayu mahzam9 of 14 new covid cases in singapore linked to bukit merah view market clustera fifth of asymptomatic covid patients develop long covid: studywhen 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
mingtiandiasia real estate and outbound investment newsa password will be e-mailed to you.
username


e-mail



2021/06/16 by michael cole leave a comment bund soho is the firm's most successful project in shanghaijust 10 months after the covid-19 pandemic derailed an attempt to take private one of china's largest commercial developers, blackstone group has agreed to acquire soho china through a new deal worth hk$23.
7 billion ($3 billion), according to a stock market announcement on wednesday.
the beijing-based developer told the hong kong exchange that funds managed by blackstone have agreed to pay hk$5.
00 each for the company's 5.
2 billion issued shares, which would give the us fund manager the rights to soho china's portfolio of nine office properties in shanghai and beijing.
a pair of companies controlled by zhang xin, soho's chief executive and the wife of chairman pan shiyi, have already agreed to sell 2.
85 billion shares in the developer to blackstone, giving the private equity giant a 54.
93 percent holding in the company.
pan has no direct shareholding in the company.
"we're thrilled to announce this investment in soho china to expand our footprint in china," blackstone real estate managing director justin wai said in a statement.
"china is a key market for our asia business where we've built a diverse real estate portfolio across office, retail, logistics, and residential.
"in its statement, soho said that the company has established a committee composed of its independent board directors to review the blackstone offer before advising independent shareholders regarding the terms of the deal and whether they should be accepted.
following completion of the transaction, blackstone intends to retain the stock market listing for soho china and does not intend to pursue any compulsory acquisition strategies.
companies controlled by zhang are set to maintain a 9 percent stake in the firm.
the buyout offer represents a 99.
5 percent premium over soho china's average trading price of hk$2.
51 per share over the thirty days ending yesterday, when trading was halted.
soho founders zhang xin (left) and pan shiyi have some reasons to smilehowever, that markup also reflects the realities of china's commercial real estate world post-pandemic, with soho china's share price having slid around 15 percent since the beginning of 2020. that slide may explain in part the disparity in value from last year's discussions, with the offer unveiled on wednesday shaving nearly 24 percent off the reported hk$31 billion value of the proposal revealed in march of last year.
in announcing an end to its privatisation discussions in august 2020, soho china said the talks had concluded without the two sides having reached agreement on terms.
this year's offer is being managed by goldman sachs, according to today's announcement.
during 2020, soho china notched revenue of rmb 2.
2 billion ($342 million), an increase of about 19 percent from the previous year.
but the company's pre-tax profit of rmb 1.
6 billion marked a 17 percent slide from the 2019 total.
since the earlier buyout attempt, two of blackstone's senior executives associated with the deal have left the company, with former head of china real estate tim wang having headed for the exit in september of last year, before joining glp just two months ago.
former blackstone managing director yan yan, who had served as president of soho china during a more than two-decade career with the company before joining the us private equity firm, was announced as a strategic advisor to china's hillhouse capital in january of this year.
in its statement wednesday, blackstone said it looks forward to working with soho's founders and management in optimising the company's assets and pointed to the potential for recovery in the shanghai and beijing office markets.
the group has continued to be active in china's real estate market over the past year, including closing on a $1.
1 billion purchase of a guangzhou warehouse project in january.
with a flair for public appearances and dramatic designs for their buildings, zhang and pan have made soho china into one of the mainland's most prominent developers, with the company having employed star architect zaha hadid to plan their curvy wangjing soho in beijing.
after founding the company in 1995, zhang and pan achieved early financial success developing strata-title office projects to sell units to wealthy individuals in northern china and elsewhere in the country.
having expanded their strata office model to shanghai in the early 2000s, however, the company later struggled to build a base of rental income after shifting to a build-to-hold strategy.
with the recent completion of a new project on qiananmen avenue in beijing, soho china's portfolio measures 826,406 square metres (8.
9 million square feet) of space.
that group of assets generated rmb 1.
4 billion in rental revenue last year, despite three of the five beijing properties operating at occupancy of between 60 and 68 percent as of 31 december.
in shanghai, bund soho stood at 97 percent occupancy at the end of 2020, while the other three properties ranged from 82 to 87 percent.
share this nowfiled under: finance tagged with: blackstone, china, cm-ml, daily-sp, featured, pan shiyi, soho china, zhang xinyour email address will not be published.
required fields are marked *comment name * email * website  

this site uses akismet to reduce spam.
learn how your comment data is processed.
more mtd tv videosmore sponsored features>>

chinese foreign ministry spokesperson zhao lijian.
file photo
  | photo credit: 
ap
  senior chinese epidemiologist said the united states should be the priority inthe next phase of investigations into the origin of covid-19 after a study showed the disease could have been circulating there as early as december 2019, state media said on thursday.
the study, published this week by the u. s.  national institutes for health (nih), showed that at least seven people in five u. s.  states were infected with sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19, weeks before the united states reported its first official cases.
a china-world health organization (who) joint study published in march said covid-19 most likely originated in the country's wildlife trade, with the virus passing into humans from bats via an intermediary species.
but beijing has promoted the theory that covid-19 entered china from overseas via contaminated frozen food, while a number of foreign politicians are also calling for more investigations into the possibility it leaked from a laboratory.
zeng guang, chief epidemiologist with the chinese center for disease control and prevention, told state-owned tabloid the global times that attention should shift to the united states, which was slow to test people in the early stages of the outbreak, and is also the home of many biological laboratories.
"all bio-weapons related subjects that the country has should be subject to scrutiny," he was quoted as saying.
commenting on the u. s.  study on wednesday, foreign ministry spokesman zhao lijian said it was now "obvious" the covid-19 outbreak had "multiple origins" and that other countries should co-operate with the who.
the origin of the pandemic has become a source of political tension between china and the united states, with much of the recent focus on the wuhan institute of virology (wiv), located in wuhan where the outbreak was first identified in late 2019. china has been criticised for its lack of transparency when it comes to disclosing data about early cases as well as the viruses studied at wiv.
a report by a u. s.  government national laboratory concluded that it was plausible that the virus had leaked from the wuhan lab, the wall street journal reported earlier this month.
a previous study has raised the possibility that sars-cov-2 could have been circulating in europe as early as september, but experts said this didn't necessarily mean it did not originate in china, where many sars-like coronaviruses have been found in the wild.
our code of editorial valuesplease enter a valid email address.
printable version | jun 17, 2021 11:02:02 am | https://www.
thehindu.
com/news/international/covid-19-origins-probe-should-shift-to-us-says-china-disease-expert/article34837056.
ece

© thg publishing pvt ltd. 

a video on the protests in budapest against the building of a fudan university campus in the city

diplomatic affairs editor suhasini haidar discusses what led to the country's current vaccine crisis
submitted by stomper nigelthis story was submitted via web contribution form.
this story was submitted via web contribution form.
a man is appealing for a couple to return a mobile phone that they found outside a store in pasir ris, which the man's mother had accidentally left behind.
stomper nigel said the incident occurred outside the 7-eleven outlet at block 446 pasir ris drive 6 on wednesday (june 16), at around 1.
10pm.
nigel's mother had placed her samsung galaxy note 10+ on top of a refrigerator outside the store while she packed her things.
the stomper said: "about three minutes after my mother left, she remembered her phone.
but when she went back, it was already gone.
"nigel shared a video that shows a man and a woman taking the phone.
he said: "a young couple saw the phone and took it while waiting for my mum to walk off further away.
they were nowhere in sight when my mum returned.
"i would like to ask the young couple to come forward and return the phone before i have no choice but to make a police report.
"get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur prime minister muhyiddin yassin's plan to convene parliament as late as october was dented on wednesday (june 16) after malaysia's king called for the federal legislative to meet "as soon as possible" to debate emergency laws and the nation's exit strategy from its worst covid-19 outbreak.
this was swiftly followed by a joint statement from the malay rulers nine state monarchs who rotate five-year terms as the federation's king expressing the view that the emergency, which suspends the need for legislatures to reconvene every six months, need not be extended beyond its aug 1 expiry date.
the statements were issued after a special meeting between sultan abdullah ahmad shah and eight other heads of state on thursday afternoon, a culmination of a week-long series of audiences the king gave to 18 party chiefs and experts over the pandemic and the emergency.
"his majesty expressed the opinion that a parliament sitting must be held as soon as possible.
.
.
parliament is an important platform for elected representatives to discuss various issues relating to the covid-19 pandemic," the palace said.
his fellow sovereigns concurred, adding that they were of "one mind" that "there is no need to place the nation under emergency rule after aug 1".
however, it is the king who has to assent or reject the government's advice on an emergency, and sultan abdullah was silent on the matter of an extension in his statement.
it is not known if tan sri muhyiddin himself raised the issue in his audience with the king on tuesday or in previous meetings.
nonetheless, a source close to one of the royal households noted "the reason it's made that way is the issue (of an emergency) is not within the jurisdiction of the council of rulers, but the king", hence the opinion is not expressed by sultan abdullah so that his discretion may be reserved.
both the king and the other rulers also issued separate statements last october, when the government's initial request for an emergency was rejected.
while sultan abdullah said such a decree was not necessary then, he called on politicians to ensure the passage of budget 2021 to ensure the nation's fight against covid-19 would not be undermined.
the other rulers, however, stressed on "justice and limiting any element of abuse of power".
parliament last sat in december to narrowly approve this year's budget and mr muhyiddin's tenuous grip on a legislative majority has not been tested since, raising questions over his legitimacy.
the emergency, which came into effect on jan 11, was imposed as malaysia struggled to contain the coronavirus outbreak after a spike in september.
but critics say it has only entrenched the muhyiddin administration, whose parliamentary majority remains in doubt after a series of defections in both directions, as measures to tackle the disease did not require an emergency.
the fact that may saw the most covid-19 deaths in a month has further fuelled the view that the emergency has not helped the fight against the pandemic.
mr muhyiddin had on tuesday unveiled his national recovery plan, which outlines criteria in terms of daily infections, healthcare capacity and vaccination rates for the government to progressively loosen an ongoing lockdown.
"i pledge my commitment that the parliamentary session can convene.
.
.
around the months of september or october, subject to stringent sops (standard operating procedures)," he had said.
"my stance from the very beginning has always been that the democratic parliamentary system should be able to function once again after the covid-19 cases are well under control and when we are close to achieving herd immunity.
"but both the king and his fellow rulers indicated the importance of "a government that is stable and enjoys public confidence and support of the majority".
the royal statements have spurred opponents like umno president ahmad zahid hamidi, whose party wants to withdraw from government and force polls it believes will result in its return to dominance.
"umno supports and views seriously his majesty's call for the need to establish a stable and strong government that is capable of functioning effectively in addressing covid-19 and reviving the economy," he said in an immediate response.
opposition leader anwar ibrahim said: "i await the next step from the government led by muhyiddin yassin to call parliament as soon as possible.
"• additional reporting by nadirah h.  rodzi and hazlin hassanjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore there were 14 more people added to the bukit merah view food centre cluster on wednesday night (june 16), most of whom are foodstall workers there or their household contacts, said the ministry of health (moh).
this brings the total number of cases in the cluster to 39. the 14 new cases in the cluster form the bulk of the 16 linked cases that were announced on wednesday.
there were also three unlinked cases and five imported cases confirmed on wednesday, for a total of 24 new cases.
linked cases in the cluster include a 12-year-old singaporean who is a student at chij st theresa's convent who was last in school on may 18.  she is a family member and household contact of a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre who tested positive on monday.
she was tested for covid-19 the same day during quarantine and developed a fever, cough and runny nose.
her test result came back positive for covid-19 infection on tuesday.
her serology test result is negative, indicating that the infection is likely to be a recent one.
the ministry had said on tuesday that bukit merah view market and food centre will be closed until june 26 for deep cleaning, and to break the chain of transmission.
telok blangah drive food centre has also been closed for deep cleaning and disinfection from wednesday till friday.
[embed]https://www.
facebook.
com/102620781513630/posts/313306227111750/[/embed]a hawker there who tested positive for the virus on monday was discovered to be a family member and household contact of three cases linked to the bukit merah view food centre cluster on wednesday.
all three have already been in quarantine since monday.
the 24 confirmed cases as at wednesday take singapore's total to 62,339, said the ministry.
the 16 linked cases consist of 10 cases that have already been placed on quarantine and six that were detected through surveillance.
the three unlinked cases include an 85-year-old female singaporean who is a retiree.
she developed a fever on saturday, but did not seek medical treatment until tuesday, when she went to a general practitioner.
there, she was administered both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
[[nid:533111]]she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive the same day.
her pcr test result also came back positive for covid-19 infection on tuesday.
her serology test result is pending.
five imported cases were also reported.
two of them are singaporeans or permanent residents.
there were no new cases from workers' dormitories.
the weekly total number of community cases is 77 in the past week, up from 71 in the previous week.
the number of unlinked cases has also risen to 19 in the past week, compared with six cases in the week before.
there are currently 44 active clusters of infection.
as at wednesday night, 146 patients remain hospitalised, including one in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 228 are recuperating in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
several australian banks and us airlines suffered website crashes on thursday, following an issue with the web services company akamai.
customers reported problems with banks including anz, westpac, st george, me bank, macquarie bank, allianz, and the commonwealth bank.
banking apps were likewise unavailable.
the airlines affected suffered short outages.
american airlines, southwest airlines, united airlines and delta air lines were among them.
the disruption began at about 14:10 sydney time (05:10 gmt).
australia post, the postal service, was hit too as well as virgin australia, the country's second-biggest carrier.
akamai admitted it was the source of the problem, telling news agency afp: "we are aware of the issue and actively working to restore services as soon as possible.
"akamai provides one of the world's largest content delivery networks (cdns) a service designed to speed up loading time for websites.
virgin said it used the technology for it network authentication.
earlier in june, an internal problem at another large cdn, fastly, prompted an hour-long outage at a number of high-profile websites including amazon, reddit, and the uk government site.
at 16:15 local time, commonwealth bank tweeted that services were starting to return to normal and thanked customers for their patience.
websites begin to work again after major breakagefirst crew blasts off to new china space stationthree astronauts successfully take off for china's longest ever human spaceflight mission.
biden and putin praise talks but discord remainsdecoding biden and putin's body language.
videodecoding biden and putin's body languagewhy cyber gangs won't worry about us-russia talks'i walked three days to find a hospital for my son'covid threat to india's holiest river.
videocovid threat to india's holiest riverthe vast european mine infuriating the neighboursdecoding biden and putin's body language.
videodecoding biden and putin's body languagewhat's going on in iran's election?âmindset shiftingâ as more australians ditch boozebbc worklife: the myth of a new digital-nomad movementcruising industry still in choppy watersfootball phrases15 sayings from around the worldkim jong-un admits north korea food concerns1first crew blasts off to new china space station2eriksen to have heart-starting device3major australian banks hit by website outage4botswana diamond could be world's third largest5âmindset shiftingâ as more australians ditch booze6world bank rejects el salvador bitcoin request7the 32-year-old taking on big tech8the vast european mine infuriating the neighbours9biden and putin praise talks but discord remains10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
the delta variant of the coronavirus, first identified in india, is a cause for global concern with studies showing it is more contagious and resistant to vaccines than other forms of covid.
but there is also evidence vaccines retain important effectiveness against delta after two doses.
here is what we know about how variants respond to jabs.
fewer antibodies.
.
.
-several lab tests show that the delta variant seems to have stronger resistance to vaccines than other variants do.
a british study published in the lancet medical journal in early june looked at levels of neutralising antibodies produced in vaccinated people exposed to the delta, alpha (first identified in britain) and beta (first identified in south africa) variants.
it found that antibody levels in people with two doses of the pfizer/biontech shot were six times lower in the presence of the delta variant than in the presence of the original covid-19 strain on which the vaccine was based.
the alpha and beta variants also provoked lower responses, with 2.
6 times fewer antibodies for alpha and 4.
9 times fewer for beta.
a french study from the pasteur institute concluded that neutralising antibodies produced by vaccination with the pfizer/biontech jab are three to six times less effective against the delta variant than against the alpha variant.
.
.
.
but vaccines still work -although they represent an essential marker, the levels of antibodies measured in a lab are not enough to determine the efficacy of a vaccine.
in particular they do not take into account a second immune response in the form of killer t cells -- which attack already-infected cells and not the virus itself.
as a result, real-world observations are crucial to measuring vaccine effectiveness -- and the first results are reassuring.
according to data published on monday by public health england, vaccination with pfizer/biontech and astrazeneca is as effective at preventing hospitalisation in the case of the delta variant as it is in the case of the alpha variant.
two doses of the pfizer/biontech jab prevent 96 percent of hospitalisations due to the delta variant, while astrazeneca prevents 92 percent, according to a study involving 14,000 people.
previous data released by british health authorities at the end of may come to similar conclusions for less serious forms of the illness.
the pfizer/biontech vaccine is 88 percent effective against symptomatic covid caused by the delta variant two weeks after the second dose, while the jab is 93 percent effective for cases caused by the alpha variant.
astrazeneca shows efficacy of 60 percent against cases caused by the delta variant and 66 percent in the case of alpha.
scottish authorities published similar data on monday in the lancet.
the team behind the sputnik v jab meanwhile tweeted on tuesday that theirs was "more efficient against the delta variant.
.
.
than any other vaccine that published results on this strain so far".
they did not publish results but said the study by the gamaleya center, a russian research institute, had been submitted for publication in an international peer-reviewed journal.
one dose not enough -among authorised vaccines only one -- developed by janssen -- is given in one dose instead of two, and not enough data exists to determine its effectiveness against the delta variant.
for the others, lab and real-world tests both conclude that one dose of any vaccine only gives limited protection against the delta variant.
"after a single dose of pfizer-biontech, 79% of people had a quantifiable neutralising antibody response against the original strain, but this fell to.
.
.
32% for b.
1.
617.
2 (delta)," says the lab study from june.
the pasteur institute found that a single dose of astrazeneca would have "little to no efficacy" against the delta variant.
data from the british government confirms the tendency in real-world scenarios: both vaccines were 33 percent effective against symptomatic cases caused by delta 3 weeks after the first dose compared to around 50 percent effectiveness against the alpha variant.
in the uk -- where the delta variant is now responsible for 96 percent of new cases -- these findings pushed the government on monday to reduce the waiting period between doses from 12 weeks to eight for people over 40. in france the wait has been reduced to three weeks from five for a second dose of the pfizer/biontech and moderna vaccines.
the pfizer/biontech jab does however offer very high (94 percent) protection against hospitalisation due to the delta variant after one dose.
shots and social distancing -scientists agree that the best defence against the delta variant is to get a full two-dose vaccination against coronavirus.
top french scientist jean-françois delfraissy says creating a "block of vaccinated people" will help keep the delta variant from spreading throughout the population.
a us study from june 10 points to the importance of vaccination to keeping the list of variants from growing.
"increasing the proportion of the population immunised with current safe and effective authorised vaccines remains a key strategy to minimise the emergence of new variants and end the covid-19 pandemic", it says.
antoine flahault, who heads up the university of geneva's institute of global health, insists it is still crucial to observe social distancing, share infection information, and observe restrictions when necessary to "keep virus circulation low".
the more the virus circulates, he says, the more opportunity it has to mutate and generate new variations.
pr/bc/nrh/pg/mbxwhen 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
after the world health organisations's (who) inquiry into the origins of covid, western leaders have called for another investigation into the theory the pandemic originated from a laboratory leak.
now, china's state media outlet has published claims the virus started in the us and france, and was later found in wuhan on december 2019. zeng guang, chief epidemiologist of the chinese center for disease control and prevention, told the global times the us should be the focus of the research into the origin of the deadly virus.
the scientist cited the us' slow response to testing people during the first stages of the pandemic, and also alluded the pandemic may have been a bioweapon from washington.
he added: "all bio-weapons-related subjects that the country has should be subject to scrutiny. "
mr guang also said only china had invited the who to investigate where the virus began.
read more: covid restrictions may remain after july 19, documents suggest    the national institutes of health (nih) took samples from americans and found seven people in illinois, massachusetts, mississippi, pennsylvania and wisconsin had covid before the first case was detected.
the us reported its first covid cases on january 21 last year.
nih data suggested covid could have been present in the us as early as december 24 2019, with the cases said to be far away from expected points of entry.
zhao lijian, spokesperson of china's ministry of foreign affairs, cited the study and claimed it is supported by similar evidence seen in international scientific journals.
he then added: "it is obvious that the outbreak had multiple origins. "
mr zhao also citied chief swedish epidemiologists who have suggested the virus was present in sweden as early as november.
it comes as support for theories covid originated in the wuhan institute of virology continue to gain support in the west.
us president joe biden has asked the intelligence community to investigate the theory, despite the who's inquiry in february.
at the g7 summit over the weekend, world leaders also discussed the possibility covid emerged from a lab leak according to dr tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, the who's director general.
he then confirmed the who was preparing for the second phase of its investigation into the origins of covid, which he said would need "transparency" and the "cooperation" of china.
dr ghebreyesus added: "we believe that all hypotheses should be open and we need to proceed with the second phase to really know the origins.
"don't miss.
.
.
dr shi zhengli, a top virologist at the wuhan institute of virology, has dismissed the lab leak there as "filth" being poured on an "innocent scientist".
she told the new york times: "how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?
"in a recent letter in the journal science, 18 scientists called for a transparent investigation to look into all possible scenarios, including the possibility of a lab leak.
the letter also stresses the importance of a "dispassionate science-based discourse" on the origins of the covid pandemic, with researchers noting the rise of "anti-asian sentiment in some countries" in the midst of the pandemic.
the first reported case of covid was in wuhan, china in december 2019.  as of writing, 177,781,705 cases and 3,847,985 deaths have been recorded from the virus.
so far, more than 2.
5 billion doses of coronavirus vaccine have been administered according to our world in data.
the uk recorded 9,055 cases and 9 deaths within 28 days of a positive coronavirus test on wednesday.
see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
english premier league champions manchester city will start their title defence away to tottenham hotspur after the fixtures for the 2021/22 season were unveiled yesterday.
city are among the sides heavily linked with spurs striker harry kane, throwing up the tantalising possibility that the england captain could line up against his boyhood club in the season-opener on the weekend of aug 14. pep guardiola's side won the league by 12 points last season ahead of manchester united, who open their campaign against old foes leeds united at old trafford.
both clashes were played behind closed doors on leeds' return to the top flight last season, but hopes are high for significant crowd numbers for the coming season.
a 40,000 crowd will witness next month's euro 2020 semi-finals and final at wembley as part of a pilot scheme.
newly promoted brentford begin life back in the top flight for the first time in 75 years with a london derby at home to arsenal.
championship winners norwich city entertain liverpool on their return to the epl.
champions league winners chelsea, who welcome managerless crystal palace to stamford bridge, have a nightmare start.
four of their next five matches will be against the epl's big six clubs.
thomas tuchel's blues visit arsenal and liverpool in late august.
the following month, they visit tottenham in a london derby before hosting guardiola's city in a repeat of last month's champions league final which they won.
liverpool renew their rivalry with city on oct 2 at anfield and their clash at the etihad on april 9 could be key in the title race.
united and liverpool face off at old trafford on oct 23 and march 19 at anfield.
all fixtures are still subject to change for tv coverage.
afpopening fixtures**  to be played on weekend of aug 14get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now

people wait in large numbers to get vaccinated at triplicane special camp for vaccination in chennai on wednesday, june 16,   | photo credit: raghunathan sr india recorded 64,964 new covid-19 cases and 2,261 new deaths till 9.
30 p. m.  on june 16.  the country has so far reported a total of 2,96,97,263 cases and 3,81,863 deaths.
kerala reported 13,270 new infections, followed by tamil nadu (10,448) and maharashtra (10,107).
maharashtra recorded 1,236 new fatalities, followed by tamil nadu (270) and kerala (147).
maharashtra's fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports.
the figures do not include cases and deaths from punjab, arunachal pradesh, chhattisgarh, jharkhand, tripura, lakshadweep, and ladakh.
the data are sourced from the respective states' health bulletins.
around 19.
3 lakh samples were tested in the country on june 15 (the results for which were made available on june 16).
about 28 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a. m.  on june 16, which is 11.
26 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours.
it is also 24,362 doses more than what was recorded during the corresponding period a week ago.
the seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase.
it stood at 31.
14 lakh on june 15, which is more than the 26.
96 lakh recorded a week before (june 8).
data | daily covid-19 vaccination picks up in the first 10 days of june
india is also administering the highest number of average doses in the world, followed by the united states (1.
14 million), japan (1 million), and brazil (0.
92 million).
about 22.
8% of adults in india, 43% of those aged above 45, and 46.
6% of people aged above 60, have been administered at least one dose of a covid-19 vaccine, until 8 p. m.  on wednesday.
while 15.
7% of the country's population has received at least one dose, only 3.
5% are fully vaccinated.
the figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. india continued to record the highest number of 7-day average daily deaths in the world with 3,721 deaths recorded on june 15.  the two other countries with the highest fatality count after india were brazil (1,986) and colombia (577).
nearly 34% of the world's new deaths were recorded in india on june 15. 




 our code of editorial valuesplease enter a valid email address.
printable version | jun 17, 2021 11:19:18 am | https://www.
thehindu.
com/news/national/coronavirus-daily-average-of-jabs-continues-to-improve/article34834311.
ece

© thg publishing pvt ltd. 

it's just one of series of attempts made by nitish kumar to bolster his party after its below par performance in 2020 assembly polls

remigration of young, trained workers bihar, jharkhand workers at minimal levels
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 14 more people added to the bukit merah view food centre cluster on wednesday night (june 16), most of whom are foodstall workers there or their household contacts, said the ministry of health (moh).
this brings the total number of cases in the cluster to 39. the 14 new cases in the cluster form the bulk of the 16 linked cases that were announced on wednesday.
there were also three unlinked cases and five imported cases confirmed on wednesday, for a total of 24 new cases.
linked cases in the cluster include a 12-year-old singaporean who is a student at chij st theresa's convent who was last in school on may 18.  she is a family member and household contact of a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre who tested positive on monday.
she was tested for covid-19 the same day during quarantine and developed a fever, cough and runny nose.
her test result came back positive for covid-19 infection on tuesday.
her serology test result is negative, indicating that the infection is likely to be a recent one.
the ministry had said on tuesday that bukit merah view market and food centre will be closed until june 26 for deep cleaning, and to break the chain of transmission.
telok blangah drive food centre has also been closed for deep cleaning and disinfection from wednesday till friday.
a hawker there who tested positive for the virus on monday was discovered to be a family member and household contact of three cases linked to the bukit merah view food centre cluster on wednesday.
all three have already been in quarantine since monday.
the 24 confirmed cases as at wednesday take singapore's total to 62,339, said the ministry.
the 16 linked cases consist of 10 cases that have already been placed on quarantine and six that were detected through surveillance.
the three unlinked cases include an 85-year-old female singaporean who is a retiree.
she developed a fever on saturday, but did not seek medical treatment until tuesday, when she went to a general practitioner.
there, she was administered both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive the same day.
her pcr test result also came back positive for covid-19 infection on tuesday.
her serology test result is pending.
five imported cases were also reported.
two of them are singaporeans or permanent residents.
there were no new cases from workers' dormitories.
the weekly total number of community cases is 77 in the past week, up from 71 in the previous week.
the number of unlinked cases has also risen to 19 in the past week, compared with six cases in the week before.
there are currently 44 active clusters of infection.
as at wednesday night, 146 patients remain hospitalised, including one in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 228 are recuperating in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: ngee ann polytechnic (np) is in the process of terminating the employment ofone of its teaching staff membersafter a viral video showed him making racist remarks towards an interracial couple.
"the polytechnic has officially charged the staff in question for serious breach of our staff code of conduct, and is proceeding to terminate his service," said an np spokesperson in a statement to cna on thursday (jun 17).
the staff member is also accused of makingislamophobic remarksin class in 2017, according to an online post by an np alumna.
"we have completed our internal investigations for both incidents," the school said.
np said the school's staff members are "expected to respect cultural, ethnic and religious differences in our society".
"they must uphold secularity and impartiality at all times.
this is in line with our staff code of conduct which includes strict guidelines on personal and professional conduct," it added.
"the disciplinary action meted out against the staff in question reflects our commitment to provide a safe, inclusive and respectful environment for our campus community.
"np apologises to alumnain the statement, np also apologised to its alumna who alleged that the same staff member had made islamophobic remarks in class in 2017.
"when the incident came to our attention last week, we reached out to our alumna immediately to express our regret for her experience in 2017," said np, adding that the school immediately offered counselling support to her.
"we have since met her to get more details of her experience and would like to apologise for the distress that she suffered, and thank her for her assistance in our internal investigations," the spokesperson added.
np added that police investigations were ongoing and that the school would fully cooperate with authorities.
on jun 9, ms nurul fatimah iskandar shared her account on instagram and facebook of comments made about islam by her then-lecturer tan boon lee in class in 2017.  in her post, ms nurul also said she had made a complaint against the lecturer, but nothing happened after that.
"as part of our investigations, we also wanted to understand why our alumna's feedback had not been acted upon, to tighten our feedback processes and ensure that gaps and areas of improvement are duly addressed," said np.
"in our conversation with her, she indicated that she could not recall whether she had emailed her feedback on the incident or raised it during a post-course focus group discussion (fgds) in 2017.
"fgds are typically held at the end of every semester to seek students' feedback on courses and lecturers," the polytechnic said.
np added that it has conducted a search of its various feedback channels, and worked with the alumna for her to check her np mailbox archives, but have not been able to locate any records of the feedback.
"nonetheless, we are committed to preventing a similar incident from occurring again, and will ensure that students are made aware of the appropriate channels for them to provide feedback in a safe manner," it said.
"we will also advise our staff on how to manage and report feedback that they may receive outside of these channels, as appropriate.
"np suspended the staff member from teaching duties on jun 7 after a video of him making racist remarks towards an interracial couple surfaced online.
the police said at the time that a 60-year-old man was assisting with investigations.
in its statement, the school said that it has various channels for students to provide anonymous feedback, including a whistle-blowing email channel for students.
"other channels for student feedback include a general enquiry asknp email, course experience dialogues as well as various student surveys conducted periodically," said np.
"in addition, students can share their feedback with their staff advisors at any time.
we would like to assure students that all feedback will be taken seriously and handled in confidence.
"np added that moving forward, it will make all feedback channels more accessible and visible on its website, and publicise them on campus digital screens as well.
"we will review our internal feedback monitoring processes to identify and resolve any gaps in teaching and learning practices and to ensure that matters of concern can be flagged in a timely manner," said np.
"we also remind all staff to strictly adhere to the staff code of conduct and create a safe learning environment for all in np.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
by cathy chan and john cheng(bloomberg) — they've raised salaries and promised quicker promotions.
but the world's biggest securities firms and banks are still struggling to retain junior investment bankers in asia, challenging their expansion plans for a region that's growing faster than almost anywhere else.
recruiters and executives say the exodus is in some ways more difficult to stem than in new york and london, where analysts and associates have rebelled against the industry's work-till-you-drop culture.
in asia's biggest hubs, young employees are more likely to leave because they think they can earn more — and climb the corporate ladder faster — at one of the many fintech and investment firms that have sprouted up to tap the region's buoyant economies and swelling piles of wealth.
the challenge is particularly acute in china and hong kong as foreign firms ramp up hiring to take advantage of a financial opening in asia's largest economy, competing with each other as well as the local startup scene.
"the whole industry is running into a pretty big supply and demand issue, and i don't think this is going to be alleviated any time soon," mark leung, jpmorgan chase & co. 's chief executive officer for china, said in a bloomberg television interview.
the u. s.  lender is among banks including goldman sachs group inc. , credit suisse group ag and hsbc holdings plc.
hiring hundreds of staff for their push into china.
while it's hard to quantify turnover with any certainty, an informal bloomberg news poll of executives at four global securities firms found that anywhere between 13% to 15% of investment banking analysts and associates left their roles this year, roughly double the average in previous years.
that's in line with estimates for the u. s.  and higher than the u. k. , according to executives at recruiting firms.
exits have picked up despite annual pay raises of 25% to 30% since 2019 for hong kong-based bankers covering in-demand sectors like technology and health care, said executives who oversee groups or the region, asking not to be named discussing private information.
the increments have been more subdued for southeast asia where attrition is also rising, one of them said.
jonathan lam left hsbc holdings plc's investment bank in hong kong in the middle of last year to join butler, a home concierge company he helped start that offers personalised services ranging from housekeeping to fixing washing machines and hosting dinner parties.
it was the feeling of making an impact and "owning something" that drove lam to quit his debt capital markets job right after a promotion, he said.
the prospect of a financial windfall also helped.
"with banking you can make good money in the short term, but with startups, if you grind it through, it will lead to big fortunes," said lam, 30, who founded butler with alumni of goldman sachs group inc.  and wells fargo & co.  the startup completed a funding round last year and has 30 employees.
asia's economic rise has made it one of the world's most attractive regions for entrepreneurs.
its share of global startup investments rose to about 40% in 2015-2017, up from 10% a decade earlier, according to mckinsey.
it's home to more than a third of the world's unicorns, the nickname for startups valued at us$1 billion or more.
the attrition is made more acute by the fact that finance is still a growth industry in asia and is smaller relative to the overall economy than in the u. s.  and europe.
more than half of finance firms in mainland china surveyed by recruitment firm michael page expect to increase their headcount by about 11% this year, on average.
financial services will likely be the most-active recruiter in hong kong and the second most-active in singapore, the poll showed.
some smaller hedge funds and money managers in hong kong are offering double the salary to lure talent, two quantitative trading analysts at a wall street bank said based on approaches from headhunters.
private equity firms, where employees get a share of profits, have also been active recruiters of junior talent in the past year, including bain capital, pag and hillhouse capital, one of the people said.
in singapore, opportunities are sprouting at hedge funds and private equity firms as well as a new breed of fintech and digital banking firms, according to lim chai leng, a senior director at recruiting firm randstad singapore.
startups and smaller boutique firms can offer flexible working and other benefits that established players have struggled to keep up with, said james carss, managing director at executive search firm nrg in the u. k.  the churn rate in the u. k.  is three to four months behind asia, but is likely to catch up, he said.
big technology firms are also drawing from the banks.
morgan stanley vice president shiyi lin last month left to join the strategic investment group at alibaba group holding ltd. , according her linkedin page.
in singapore, jack ma's ant group co. , southeast asia's most-valuable startup grab holdings inc.  and its most valuable company sea ltd.  are setting up digital banks.
daniel yuan, a yale-educated former analyst at goldman sachs, left in 2019 to become chief of staff at online finance company futu holdings ltd.  while he credits goldman for teaching him everything he knows about finance, he found his ability to move up the ladder too rigid.
"i knew exactly what i needed to do and how long i needed to keep doing this in order to advance my career at goldman," yuan said.
"at a leaner and more entrepreneurial corporate like futu, there's a lot of flexibility around what i can do, especially in my capacity as the chief of staff.
"banks are starting to notice.
one example is lam's old firm, hsbc, which counts hong kong as its largest market.
the lender, which is in a midst of a major pivot to asia, last month promised a shorter career path for new associates, offering promotions after three years instead of four.
it also pledged to boost pay.
jpmorgan is also hiring more junior bankers and staff globally.
globally, lenders are raising pay for junior employees, enforcing curfews and hiring more to prevent defections and ease discontent as a jump in deals during the pandemic intensified the focus on work-life issues.
wall street was set abuzz earlier this year by a leaked presentation from junior analysts at goldman sachs that detailed their grueling workload and punishing hours.
spokespeople for goldman, hsbc and jpmorgan declined to comment for this story.
"in asia, junior bankers are more likely to leave for career opportunities that they see as more financially attractive," said john mullally, regional director at robert walters in hong kong.
"the long hours and stress of banking careers are a factor, but just not as much as it is for their counterparts in europe and the u. s. "for some beleaguered bankers, the exodus of their colleagues at the same time as dealmaking is thriving, is taking its toll.
over the past 12 months, mergers and acquisitions have jumped 30% in asia pacific, while initial public offerings have risen 44%, according to data compiled by bloomberg.
an associate at jpmorgan, who asked not to be named, said his workload doubled after a colleague quit for a financial technology firm in december, leaving him to work 18 hours a day, on average, without a break for almost two months.
he's now actively looking for a job at a buy-side firm, he said, looking for a place with less hierarchy and more opportunities for career advancement.
© 2021 bloomberg l. p. furbatto, who will take the role of engineering director,  is expected to join the silverstone-based team ahead of the 2022 season.
aston martin technical director andrew green will become chief technical officer with immediate effect.
though policymakers have yet to agree on a plan, most expect that by the end of 2023 they will have raised interest rates at least twice from the current near-zero level, forecasts published wednesday show.
and though the fed made no forecasts about its $120 billion monthly bond-buying program which, along with rock-bottom interest rates, is keeping borrowing costs low and supporting economic growth policymakers have said they will phase the program out before they begin raising rates.
following the great financial crisis, it was a full two years from the formal announcement in december 2013 of the bond-buying taper to the first interest rate increase.
the 40-year-old actor will make his cbeebies debut on 25 june when he reads supertato.
the star's husband spent more than a year in hospital after getting the coronavirus.
with the rising number of stakeholders playing a role in medical decision-making, pharmaceutical companies are looking for more effective ways to communicate the value of an innovative treatment.
they are increasingly turning to actionable, evidence-based programs to convince these stakeholders of the value of the treatment.
a comprehensive data set can help an analytics team map a treatment journey and quickly identify the patients and physicians who are most likely to benefit from a novel theru.
s.  senate democrats scrambled to unite around a sweeping election reform bill that they aim to bring to a vote next week, in the face of republican opposition and state moves to pass laws placing new restrictions on voting.
following a presidential election that saw a record 155 million americans cast ballots, democrats say action is necessary to protect democracy.
republican-controlled legislatures in six competitive states https://www.
reuters.
com/world/us/republicans-erect-voting-barriers-across-number-politically-crucial-us-states-2021-06-15 have passed bills that voting rights advocates have denounced as partisan power grabs.
manuel locatelli timed his run into the italy team almost as well as he timed his run for the azzurri's opening goal against switzerland on wednesday.
the midfielder swept a volleyed pass out to the right wing to domenico berardi, before racing half the length of the pitch to get on the end of his sassuolo team mate's cross and fire home.
locatelli followed that up with a superb left-footed strike from the edge of the box in the second half to top off a night in which he announced himself to a global audience.
by jarrett banks a goldman sachs special purpose acquisition company will buy radiation detection company mirion technologies inc.  from london-based buyout veterans charterhouse capital partners, mirion said in a statement.
the deal values mirion at about $2.
6 billion, or 13.
3 times the company's estimated 2022 adjusted ebitda of approximately $192 million, the statement said.
the [.
.
.
]democratic senator kirsten gillibrand has revived a bill that would establish a new u. s.  federal agency to shield americans from the invasive practices of tech companies operating in their own backyard.
last year, gillibrand (d-ny) introduced the data protection act, a legislative proposal that would create an independent agency designed to address modern concerns around privacy and tech that existing government regulators have proven ill-equipped to handle.
"the u. s.  needs a new approach to privacy and data protection and it's congress' duty to step forward and seek answers that will give americans meaningful protection from private companies that value profits over people," sen.  gillibrand said.
today, the 16th annual socan songwriting prize celebrates the exceptional talent of the next generation of great canadian music creators with 20 sensational songs.
iwave, the industry's top-rated fundraising intelligence solution, is excited to announce the launch of their highly anticipated foundation and company screening technology.
while wealth screening for individuals has been available for decades, no technology provider has ever been able to provide a screening solution for institutional donors, until now.
high tide inc.  ("high tide" or the "company") (tsxv: hiti) (nasdaq: hiti) (fra: 2lya), a retail-focused cannabis corporation enhanced by the manufacturing and distribution of consumption accessories, announced today that the company will release its financial and operational results for the quarter ended april 30, 2021 after market close on monday, june 28th, 2021.  high tide's second quarter 2021 financial and operational results will be available on sedar and on the company's website at www.
higeli lilly ceo david ricks joins 'influencers with andy serwer' to discuss progress in the fight against covid-19.
the covid-19 pandemic has shown us once again the importance of quickly developing and approving the use of innovative drugs.
a publication launched today by the montreal economic institute has two recommendations to help ensure that canadians have quicker access to medications.
the honourable françois-philippe champagne, minister of innovation, science and industry, will announce an important investment to support domestic manufacturing of personal protective equipment.
rokmaster resources corp.  (tsxv: rkr) (otcqb: rkmsf) (fse: 1rr1) ("rokmaster" or the "company") is pleased to report on the continued success of its inaugural surface diamond drill program at the revel ridge project.
members of the media are invited to attend an important announcement regarding public transit infrastructure with andy fillmore, parliamentary secretary to the minister of infrastructure and communities and member of parliament for halifax, on behalf of the honourable catherine mckenna, minister of infrastructure and communities; the honourable kelly regan, deputy premier of nova scotia, on behalf of energy and mines minister chuck porter; and his worship mike savage, mayor of the halifax regionin this episode of influencers, eli lilly chairman & ceo david ricks joins andy to discuss the latest in the pharmaceutical industry, new progress in the fight against covid-19, and potential groundbreaking advancements for the treatment of alzheimer's.
brookfield zoo in chicago uploaded video of their animals getting soaked to celebrate 'international bath day' on monday (june 14).
an eight-year-old anteater named lupito, a six-year-old emu named echo and a 10-year-old black rhinoceros named layla all got sprayed with water.
the zoo said in a press release that the celebration was to honour greek scientist and mathematician archimedes who discovered purportedly while in the bath 'that an object's volume could be accurately measured by being submerged in water!'
and promptly leapt out of the bath shouting 'eureka'.
the loose women panellist looks so chic
bangkok thailand will reopen to visitors within 120 days after more than a year of coronavirus travel curbs, a calculated risk needed to revive its troubled economy, prime minister prayut chan-o-cha said.
the country was ahead of target in securing 105.
5 million doses of virus vaccine for this year and would seek more supplies next year, mr prayut said in a nationally televised speech yesterday.
he added that the government plans to administer an average of 10 million shots each month from july and aims to reopen the tourism-reliant country to fully vaccinated travellers, local and foreign, without a quarantine requirement.
"reopening the country is one of the important ways to start reducing the enormous suffering of people who have lost their ability to earn an income," he said.
"when we take into consideration the economic needs of people, the time has now come for us to take that calculated risk.
"he aimed to declare thailand fully open within 120 days and for tourism centres that are ready "to do so even faster".
mr prayut said the risk was necessary and the country could not afford to wait to complete all of its vaccinations and for the spread of the virus to halt.
it will start with a pilot reopening from july 1 of phuket, which has been vaccinating most of its local population.
thailand lost about us$50 billion (s$66 billion) in tourism revenue last year an 82 per cent plunge.
it had 2,331 new cases yesterday, taking the total to 204,595.  there were 40 deaths, taking the toll to 1,525.  reutersget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
the bank has priced s$600 million of perpetual capital securities at a fixed coupon rate of 2.
55 percent – the lowest for benchmark perpetual securities for banks in singapore.
uob is piloting the digital issuance of its latest bond offering on exchange-operated digital asset issuance platform marketnode, the bank said in an announcement on wednesday.
the non-call seven-year additional tier 1 (at1) capital securities offering is the industry's first public capital issuance to reference the singapore overnight rate average overnight indexed swap (sora-ois) rate.
the digital bond is run in parallel with the conventional issuance process.
uob said the transaction saw a subscription rate of 1.
7 times, supported by an extensive investor base comprising both quality institutional accounts and private banking investorsmore efficientmarketnode is a joint venture between singapore exchange and temasek.
it uses distributed ledger technology to connect various parties – from issuers to investors – and to tokenise capital securities so that smart contracts can be created and conducted for greater efficiency.
uob said it is fully behind the development of singapore's digital capital markets infrastructure and the smooth transition to a sora-centred financial market.
«as more global issuers and investors come on board and participate in singapore's digital capital markets, we will see further strengthening of singapore's status as the region's financial hub,» wee ee cheong, uob deputy chairman and ceo, said + more on this topic+ more on this topic
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jiuquan, china (reuters, afp, xinhua) china's shenzhou-12 manned spaceship has successfully docked with the space station core module tianhe on thursday (june 17), according to the china manned space agency (cmsa).
the spacecraft carrying three astronaut was sent to space by a long-march 2f rocket, which blasted off at 9.
22am on thursday morning from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in north-western gansu province.
after about 10 minutes after the launch, shenzhou-12 or "divine vessel" reached orbit and the space craft separated from the rocket, to loud applause in the control room among rows of blue-suited engineers.
state broadcaster cctv showed a live feed from inside the spacecraft, with the three astronauts lifting their helmet visors and one smiling and waving at the camera.
another floated a pen just off his lap in zero gravity as he browsed the flight manual.
shenzhou-12 is the third of 11 missions – four of which will be crewed – needed to complete china's first full-fledged space station.
construction began in april with the launch of tianhe, the first and largest of three modules.
the astronauts nie haisheng, 56, liu boming, 54, and tang hongbo, 45, are to work and stay on tianhe, the living quarters of the future space station, for three months the longest stay in low earth orbit by any chinese national.
during their sojourn on the cylinder-like tianhe, slightly bigger than a city bus, the three men will test the module's technologies, including its life-support system.
the men will also be monitored for how they fare in space physically and psychologically for an extended period of time.
an upcoming mission to the space station will last six months.
"this will be the first crewed flight in the space station (construction) phase, and i'm lucky to be able to have the 'first baton'," mr nie told reporters in jiuquan a day before the launch.
the veteran astronaut has been hailed by his team as a bastion of stability and a teacher figure who constantly challenges others with tough questions.
"as long as we have him in our hearts, we have nothing to fear," fellow astronaut wang yaping, who is part of the shenzhou-12 backup team, told state media previously.
"in our crew, elder brother nie is like the needle that stills the sea," she said.
like mr nie, mr liu was from the first batch of astronauts selected in the 1990s for china's space programme.
known for his intellect, mr liu is often addressed by his colleagues as "little zhuge", the renowned military strategist who lived in china two millennia ago.
on the shenzhou-7 mission in 2008, mr liu famously used a crowbar to prise open the hatch after it refused to open.
mr tang, a former air force pilot, 45, was from a later batch of astronauts, and trained for more than a decade before being selected for his first spaceflight on shenzhou-12.
"i've waited for 11 years, and finally i'm ready, and i can contribute my strength," mr tang told reporters on wednesday.
their shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the tianhe main section of the space station, which was placed in orbit on april 29. the module has separate living spaces for each of them, a treadmill for exercise, and a communication centre for e-mails and video calls with ground control.
it is china's first crewed mission in nearly five years.
the launch represents a matter of huge prestige in china, as beijing prepares to mark the 100th anniversary of the ruling communist party on july 1 with a massive propaganda campaign.
to prepare for the mission, the crew has undergone more than 6,000 hours of training, including hundreds of underwater somersaults in full space gear.
the first crew will test and maintain the systems on board, conduct spacewalks and undertake scientific experiments.
china's space ambitions have been fuelled in part by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station (iss), a collaboration between the united states, russia, canada, europe and japan.
it is due for retirement after 2024, even though nasa said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong will be much smaller than the iss, and is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
since 2003, china has launched six crewed missions and sent 11 astronauts into space, including mr zhai zhigang, who carried out china's first space walk ever on the 2008 shenzhou mission.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: thirteen of the covid-19 community cases reported in singapore on wednesday (jun 16) are linked to the bukit merah view cluster, said the ministry of health.
there were six other cases, bringing the total number of new community infections to 19. of these six, three were linked to previous cases and three were unlinked.
bukit merah view clustertwo students were among the 13 cases linked to the bukit merah view cluster one studying at chij st theresa's convent and another at gan eng seng school.
there were also two stall assistants who work at zhangde primary school's canteen and tiong bahru yong tao hu at 56 eng hoon street.
another stall helper in the list of cases works at new changi eating house and sometimes helped out at a stall at bukit merah view market, said moh.
another case works in an administrative role at south asia construction and part-time at telok blangah food centre.
the remaining six new cases in the bukit merah view cluster comprised a taxi driver, a sales coordinator at gold lite, a freelance worker and three retirees.
there are now 39 cases in this cluster after an unlinked case that had been first reported on monday was reclassified as linked to the cluster.
the case isa cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4who is employed by ao servicepro.
other community casestwo of the community cases a part-time housekeeper at eunike living and a waitress at common man stan were linked to case 64184, a 27-year-old male indian national who works as an engineer at ecoxplore.
the other linked case was a household contact of case 64264. the three unlinked cases comprised two foreign domestic workers and a retiree.
there were also five imported cases and all of them had been placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in singapore.
two were singaporeans who had returned from india and the uk, while the remaining three were maids from indonesia who hold work permits.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories.
in all, singapore reported 24 new covid-19 cases on wednesday.
more cases dischargedtwenty more covid-19 cases were discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities, taking the total recoveries to 61,931, said moh.
a total of 146 cases were still in hospital, most of whom stable or improving, with one in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
another 228 had been isolated and were being cared for at community facilities.
several food centres affected by covid-19 casesstallholders atredhill market and food centrewill undergo mandatory swab tests after a covid-19 case recently visited the market.
the market is within walking distance of115 bukit merah view market and food centre, which has been closed since sunday for deep cleaning after a new cluster of covid-19 cases was linked to it.
the bukit merah view market, which was slated to reopen on wednesday, will now be shut for two weeks until jun 26. explaining the decision, moh said that the detection of more cases among employees at the market and their close contacts suggests there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission".
telok blangah drive food centrewill also be closed for three days from wednesday after a hawker there tested positive for covid-19.
he is a family member of a covid-19 case from the bukit merah view market cluster and was placed on quarantine on jun 13. as of wednesday, singapore has reported a total of 62,339 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities from the disease.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
central bankers projected interest-rate increases well into the future that could be changed easily depending on economic conditions.
fed chair jerome powell would like to shelve "talking about talking about.
"photographer: susan walsh-poll/afp/getty imagesthe federal reserve's june decision was viewed overwhelmingly as hawkish across any number of measures.
and yet, when it comes down to tangible policy actions, the central bank barely lifted a finger.
the federal open market committee left the fed funds rate unchanged in a range of 0% to 0.
25%, but, in a surprise to just about all market observers, policy makers signaled through their "dot plot" that they now expect two interest-rate increases by the end of 2023, up from a median expectation of zero in march.
while the fed's statement didn't tweak any wording around the pace of its asset purchases, it conspicuously  removed the second sentence that had been included since april 2020: "the covid-19 pandemic is causing tremendous human and economic hardship across the united states and around the world. "
that reflects the reality of progress of getting americans vaccinated and suggests that the emergency measures that have been in place for more than a year — such as $120 billion of monthly bond purchases — may soon no longer be necessary.
meanwhile, fed officials updated their economic projections for the first time since march, which was before some of the highest year-over-year inflation numbers  in decades.
they boosted their expectations for core pce to 3% in 2021, from 2.
2% previously, but barely adjusted projections for inflation in 2022 and 2023, at 2.
1%.
policy makers also didn't change their views much on the unemployment rate, calling for it to likely fall to 4.
5%, the same as in march, then 3.
8% in 2022 and finally 3.
5% in 2023.  some analysts speculated that the quirks in the labor market that have caused payroll gains to miss estimates in the past two months would lead officials to raise their jobless rate forecasts.
without question, it all appears hawkish and explains why the benchmark 10-year treasury yield rose almost 10 basis points after the statement was released and the five-year yield surged more than 13 basis points.
the s&p 500 index swiftly retreated to a 1% decline on the day before paring losses.
however, the fed has gone to great lengths to emphasize that as part of its new policy framework, it will make outcome-based decisions, rather than adjusting interest rates based on projections.
given that guidance, why exactly do we care about the dot plot again?treasury yields soar after more fed officials expect rate hikes in 2023 source: bloombergfed chair jerome powell made clear yet again his view of the dot plot: "the dots are not a great forecaster of future rate moves," he said.
"these are of course individual projections, they're not a committee forecast, they're not a plan.
and we did not actually have a discussion of whether liftoff is appropriate in any particular year, because discussing liftoff now would be highly premature — it wouldn't make any sense. "
also, there's no guarantee that powell will still be in his position come 2023. even when it came to the more pressing issue of reducing asset purchases, powell was noncommittal.
"you can think of this meeting that we had as the 'talking about talking about meeting,' if you like, and i now suggest that we retire that term," he said.
"i expect that we'll be able to say more about timing as we see more data," he said, adding, "we're still a ways from our goal of substantial further progress.
"in fact, the only policy move that didn't involve projections and forecasts, which the fed could easily sidestep when the time comes, was the central bank's adjustments to its so-called administered rates, which dictate the interest paid on excess reserves and at the central bank's reverse-repo facility, which has experienced  unprecedented use from money-market funds and other counterparties that are inundated with cash.
it boosted both by five basis points: ioer is now 0.
15% and the rate at its reverse-repo facility is 0.
05%.
this isn't really "hawkish" per se, even if it was a surprise to many, as it's mostly a technical tweak to avoid pressure on the zero lower bound.
so where do we truly stand after this meeting?
by and large, fed officials still see inflation as transitory and settling back around its 2% target in the coming years.
they haven't changed their view on the trend lower in the unemployment rate, with powell saying "i would expect that we would see strong job creation building up over the summer and going into the fall. "
meanwhile, the threshold for tapering hasn't been reached, and powell reiterated that policy makers will provide markets with a long runway before they get started.
at best, traders learned that the majority of the fed doesn't seem willing to fall so far behind the curve that it'll have to slam on the brakes later.
with this hawkish tilt, the central bank has preserved its coveted "optionality" and shows it's not entirely oblivious to robust economic growth, elevated price pressures, ultra-easy financial conditions and a glut of cash in the system.
this column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or bloomberg lp and its owners.
to contact the author of this story:brian chappatta at bchappatta1@bloomberg.
netto contact the editor responsible for this story:daniel niemi at dniemi1@bloomberg.
net
singapore: total employment in singapore grew by more than estimated in the first quarter of this year, but economic uncertainties and covid-19 restrictions are expected to weigh on the pace of labour market recovery in the second quarter, said the ministry of manpower (mom) on thursday (jun 17).
according to final figures for the quarter, total employment – excluding migrant domestic workers – grew by 12,200. this is higher than the figure of 4,800 reported in preliminary estimates in april, when mom said that total employment grew for the first time after four consecutive quarters of decline.
the improved figures were due to a higher-than-anticipated rise in resident employment of 23,700.  at the same time, the economy continued to shed foreign workers, with non-resident employment declining by 11,500.  however, the pace at which non-resident employment fell moderated from previous quarters.
resident employment increases were broad-based across industries, led by information and communications, food and beverage services, health and social services, administrative and support services, public administration and education, as well as professional services.
"these are good signs, which we are happy to see.
however, our path to recovery will not be a straight road.
we will be met with some twists and potential roadblocks," said minister for manpower tan see leng.
"in fact, last month's tightened measures in phase 2 (heightened alert) is expected to lead to some kinks.
recovery is also expected to be more uneven across sectors than earlier expected.
"decline in foreign labour "cyclical"speaking after a visit to the procter and gamble innovation centre, dr tan said that the outlook remains "guarded" due to covid-19 restrictions in phase 2 (heightened alert), which singapore is just emerging from.
domestic sectors like retail and food and beverage in particular would be impacted by the restrictions, he noted.
dining-in at f&b outlets, which has stopped since may 16, was to resume from jun 21 under a two-step reopening plan.
but that timeline is being evaluated as more covid-19 cases have emerged.
export-oriented sectors like manufacturing, however, are expected to do well, said dr tan: "even though we are guarded, we are cautiously optimistic, because external sectors in terms of the exports .
.
.
i think we're still seeing quite a lot of good news coming on that front.
"mom said that seasonally adjusted unemployment rates continued to improve, but unemployment rates remained elevated in march.
the overall unemployment rate in march was 2.
9 per cent, with the resident unemployment rate dipping from 4.
1 per cent to 4 per cent, and the citizen unemployment rate at 4.
2 per cent.
the resident long-term unemployment rate, referring to people who have been unemployed for more than six months, remained unchanged at 1.
1 per cent.
on foreign workers, permanent secretary for manpower aubeck kam said that ongoing border restrictions continue to put "significant pressure" on foreign employment, but this was "cyclical" and not a structural phenomenon.
"we do expect the number of foreign workers to grow at some point.
the prolonged decline is really a function of the border restrictions, and will not be representative of the demands of the different sectors," he said, adding that the drop in foreign employment in q1 was across different sectors.
mr kam said that the fall in foreign worker numbers also has some bearing on projections in the second quarter as the output in some sectors like construction, which is reliant on foreign labour, will be reduced.
responding to a reporter's question on when border restrictions may be relaxed so firms can hire the foreign workers they need, dr tan said that this depends on many factors and a "key variable" is the covid-19 situation in the countries where the workers are from.
he added that there is a "risk quota" to determine the inflow of workers.
"it is a daily, weekly and monthly calibration and titration according to the risks of the imports from these countries, versus what we can deal (with) in terms of our healthcare facilities," he said.
more job vacancies, fewer retrenchmentsthe number of job vacancies increased further to 68,400 in march and the rise was reported in all industries, said mom.
in particular, job vacancies were seen in manufacturing (mainly in fabricated metal products, machinery & equipment and electronics), public administration and education, construction, information and communications, as well as financial services.
the ratio of job vacancies to unemployed people improved from 0.
75 in december 2020 to 0.
96, or nearly one job vacancy for every unemployed person in march.
this is within the pre-pandemic range, which was 0.
82 to 1.
09 from 2018 to 2019, said mom.
the number of retrenchments fell to 2,270, and the six-month re-entry rate among retrenched residents (66 per cent) rose in q1 this year for the second consecutive quarter.
"more than half of retrenchments which occurred in q1 2021 were due to restructuring and re-organisation, while retrenchments due to recession or downturn in industry made up a smaller proportion compared to a quarter ago," said mom.
as business activities picked up, the number of employees who were placed on short work-weeks or temporarily laid off also halved from 8,710 in the fourth quarter of 2020 to 4,020 in the last quarter.
however, the level remains high compared to pre-pandemic quarters, which averaged 740 in 2018 and 2019. it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
some say that age is just a number.
singapore's oldest living pioneer artist, who turns 100 in september, is still painting.
prime minister lee hsien loong was the guest of honour at soul of ink: lim tze peng at 100, a book and exhibition launch on the life and works of the centenarian artist on tuesday (june 15) at the arts house.
in his speech, pm lee touched on the artist's life story as a farmer, student, teacher and school principal.
he highlighted lim's artistic journey, from being self-taught to being awarded the cultural medallion in 2003 and the meritorious service medal in 2016.
"from his streetscapes and kampong scenes in our early nation-building years to his iconic paintings of chinatown and the singapore river through the decades, they offer a vivid glimpse of the colour of everyday lives in singapore.
"his life's work captures the atmosphere of the changing times," pm lee said.
[embed]https://www.
facebook.
com/leehsienloong/posts/4432571690138836[/embed]the book, authored by media veteran woon tai ho, highlights the man behind his art.
meanwhile, the exhibition, which runs till june 30, showcases 20 recently completed artworks ranging from colourful ink paintings of singapore to abstract calligraphy.
the exhibition includes four paintings lim started in the 1980s which he finished colouring in 2020: morning at arab street, crowded bugis street, riverside and tanjong rhu riverside.
pm lee also announced the national arts council will open the cultural medallion gallery that will commemorate the works of cultural medallion winners including lim tze peng, in a few months.
"these cultural icons and role models we call our own, will continue to inspire new generations of local artists and performers," he said.
for more information on the book and exhibition, visit this website.
alexanderkt@asiaone.
com
playwright alfian sa'at on tuesday night (15 june) questioned what appears to be the people's association (pa)'s selective quoting of communications specialist sarah bagharib's remarks in an interview with nanyang technological university professor walid j.  abdullah on the hari raya standee fiasco.
pa had used ms sarah's wedding photograph as a prop in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru.
while the standee was subsequently removed and the pa offered her a public apology, the organisation later said it rejects ms sarah's "accusations" of racism, branding the incident "culturally insensitive" and an "isolated case".
posting on facebook on monday, pa referenced her interview with assistant professor walid, claiming that ms sarah mentioned that the incident has perpetuated a culture of racism.
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said pa. the organisation claimed that it had explained to ms sarah that while it acknowledges that its staff "should have been more culturally sensitive", it is not right to paint "sweeping conclusions from this incident".
doubling down on its point that ms sarah's case was an isolated one, pa said that it finds ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting an "odd" one.
"we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," said pa, adding that it is of the view that ms sarah's purpose in agreeing to meet its representatives "has gone far beyond the radin mas incident".
pa said that it will not be following through with the meeting as there is "no point" in doing so, in light of the above.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters.
we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures," it added.
pa also claimed that ms sarah's 1 june email had falsely alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," it said.
"it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself," pa added.
the short length of the quotes attached by pa in its follow-up post, said mr alfian, had aroused his suspicion, as "to build a case against someone it is always important to be able to reproduce what they said in full".
"scanning through pa's statement, one would be forgiven if one thought that ms sarah was the one who made the claim that what pa did "perpetuate[d] [a] racist culture".
but she was actually sharing something someone else had written," he noted.
ms sarah had in fact quoted a female chinese clinical psychologist's comment, who wrote:"this whole thread is written with much labour, can we chinese singaporeans please appreciate the labour and educate ourselves on our conditioned racism?
it's long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance–which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them.
"the comment in itself did not state that the act of putting up the offending decorations in itself had perpetuated a culture of racism — rather, it is the cultural ignorance in the process of doing so that is racist, said mr alfian.
ms sarah, he added, did not directly make remarks such as "this racist incident" or "and other similar racist incidents" in the interview.
instead, she said:"allyship plays a big part in promoting true racial harmony–one that goes beyond "racial tolerance".
i am so, so grateful to allies who have used their voices to stand in solidarity with razif and i, and ethnic minority communities, in the aftermath of this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed).
""i think ms sarah has been at pains to assert that all singaporeans, and not just minorities, are stakeholders in the issue.
hers isn't some kind of minority grievance whose aim is to indict an entire majority community," said mr alfian.
referencing pa's claim that its error was not born out of racism, but rather out of "cultural insensitivity", the playwright said that the model of "racial harmony" that the organisation has been operating on "would not recognise that something is racist unless it "disrupts" harmony".
"of course the people at pa would want to distance themselves from "obvious" racists like beow tan, tan boon lee and the gong lady," he said, adding that pleading "cultural insensitivity" is a way of justifying "racism that is not tantamount to public nuisance".
addressing pa's claim that ms sarah had spoken about its "staff and volunteers" being "blind to racism", mr alfian said that he could not find the alleged statement anywhere in the whole interview.
"what i found instead was this, 9 minutes from the end.
walid jokes with her about whether she'd have a teh tarik with melvin yong (the mp on the banner)," he said.
quoting ms sarah:"there was a light-up event, at tiong bahru arcade, where the standee was as well, and i wonder if he saw it?
there was a light up hari raya event, at that very stage.
with his face, and the kampung thing, coconut tree and all of it.
so i wondered if he saw the standee, what he thought about it.
if he did, and he didn't say anything, or think twice, to think that something was wrong about it.
if i had teh tarik with him then i'd like to know if he did see that.
and if he did, and he didn't say anything about it, then something is definitely wrong, right?while there was a comment on internalised racism — on how "we've been so conditioned to think in a certain way.
.
.
that there's nothing wrong with this because people are colour blind, or blind to racism at play.
or there's nothing wrong, because it doesn't impact them" — mr alfian noted that there was "no mention of pa staff or volunteers".
"it's a stretch, but maybe she was questioning whether the mp had noticed that something was wrong–and it's important to underline that these are questions, not accusations," he said.
the playwright questioned whether much of the supposed efforts on those who speak of "racial harmony" are mostly concentrated on the "in progress" part than in doing "the actual work".
"because for me, one of the most important work is dialogue–real dialogue with those on the other side of the aisle, not stage-managed ones of vetted questions and screened guest lists.
i dream of the day when pa can have a dialogue with ms sarah, or when zaobao editors can have one with the scholars who wrote in to them on their coverage of racial issues.
it's a dream that's entirely within reach," he said.
professor walid, in his comment on mr alfian's post, highlighted that ms sarah was "responding to a comment" left by a viewer during the livestream "when she talked about internalised racism".
"because ig live does not save comments, and we were taking many comments, we do not even know what that specific comment refers to," he added.
other commenters remarked that pa staff involved in the saga "need to take a critical reading class" and that by "unilaterally cancelling a planned meeting" with ms sarah, the organisation is "essentially indicating that they do not want to do the hard work of authentic dialogue".
one of the "smear campaigns constructed out of selective quotations" referred to by mr alfian in his post earlier include pro-establishment factions such as facebook page singapore matters citing his social media post from 2012, in which mr alfian had reportedly told today that he "would love to become a malaysian".
in june last year, mr alfian also had to issue a refutation against the "pro-malaysia activist" narrative made against him.
among the points made by mr alfian include his past criticism in 2014 on how the bumiputera policy "has been hijacked and corrupted" by "umnoputras" through "cronyism, nepotism and corruption".
"of all the accusations in that post, this one is the most obviously defamatory.
i had to comb through all my posts to see what i had written about 'bumiputera policies'.
and there's not a single post that mentions endorsement of the policy, nor my wish for it to be implemented in singapore.
if anything, there is awareness of how it has been hijacked and corrupted," he wrote.
touching on the claim that he had "mocked" singapore's approach in the maritime dispute with malaysia in 2019 as "jingoism", mr alfian clarified that his comments expressed his "dovish" anxiety over military escalation in the johor straits at the time.
"i expect our elected officials to exhaust all diplomatic channels for solutions rather than to rely on 'jingoism'—extreme nationalism, in the form of aggressive or warlike foreign policy," he wrote.
in his commentary on his poem "singapore you are not my country", mr alfian highlighted that then-education minister ong ye kung did not quote the poem in full when the latter cited it in parliament in october 2019. in delivering his speech on the cancellation of a yale-nus programme which mr alfian was initially invited to run, mr ong quoted part of mr alfian's poem "singapore you are not my country", which was written in 1998, to give parliament "a flavour" of the literary figure's "thinking".
mr ong said:"singapore, i assert you are not a country at all,
do not raise your voice against me, i am not afraid of your anthem"later part of the poem says:".
.
.
how can you call yourself a country,
you terrible hallucination of highways and cranes and condominiums
ten minutes' drive from the mrt?
""this is a poem, and we might concede some artistic licence.
but mr alfian sa'at continues this attitude consistently in his activism.
"mr alfian in a facebook post later clarified that the line quoted by mr ong, when placed in context, appears as seen below:do not raise your voice against me,
i am not afraid of your anthem
although the lyrics are still bleeding from
the bark of my sapless heart.
mr alfian elaborated that the context in which the line "i am not afraid of your anthem" appears describes the anthem's presence in his upbringing as a singaporean and how it "bleeds from my heart".
contrary to what the line appears to suggest on the surface, 'i am not afraid of your anthem' actually reveals the fear of vulnerability and of having the anthem "rouse patriotic feelings in me", he added.
"i am afraid of this patriotic love because it is so involuntarily, it comes from a primordial and irresistible place from deep inside," said mr alfian.
"i am afraid of these volcanic feelings because i want to protect myself from loving something too much.
""just stopping on the word 'anthem' might suggest that i am somehow rejecting symbols of the state," he said.
the aforementioned yale-nus programme, which was renamed "dialogue and dissent in singapore", was originally set to take place from 29 september to 5 october in 2019. contrary to the allegations made in a yale report on the cancellation, which he said painted him as "defiant and intransigent", mr alfian said that he was open to removing certain elements from the original programme itinerary and substituting such elements with others, in light of sensitivities arising from contemporary developments at the time.
an example of such, according to mr alfian, included removing the screening of a documentary on hong kong civil rights activist joshua wong after a yale-nus representative – who he addressed as "person d" – on 11 sep raised concerns pertaining to the ongoing protests in the city.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
munich, germany (afp) a greenpeace activist crash-landed on the pitch in munich on tuesday (june 15) before the germany-france match at euro 2020 after his powered parachute microlight struck spidercam cables at the allianz arena, with uefa saying he had "injured several people".
the pilot flew over the pitch just before kick-off in the group f clash with "kick out oil" written on the canopy of his parachute.
however, when the pilot hit television cables above the pitch, it knocked his microlight off balance and he landed on the turf after clipping one of the stands.
this is when uefa said several people were injured and had to be hospitalised.
"this inconsiderate act which could have had very serious consequences for a huge number of people attending caused injuries to several people attending the game who are now in hospital and law authorities will take the necessary action," european football's governing body said in a statement.
"the staging of the match was fortunately not impacted by such a reckless and dangerous action, but several people were injured nonetheless.
"the activist seemed unhurt and was quickly arrested.
the stunt was a protest against german car manufacturer volkswagen, one of the sponsors of the european championship, greenpeace explained in a twitter post.
"uefa and its partners are fully committed to a sustainable euro 2020 tournament and many initiatives have been implemented to offset carbon emissions," said uefa.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the israeli military said it was "prepared for all scenarios" after it launched airstrikes on gaza in the early hours of june 16, breaking a ceasefire between israel and gaza militant groups.
the israel defense forces said airstrikes were targeting "hamas military complexes" after incendiary balloons were sent into israeli territory.
it was not immediately clear if there were any casualties from the attack in gaza.
the air raid marks the first hostility between israel and gaza militants since a ceasefire came into effect on may 21, ending an 11-day conflict that left 257 palestinians and 12 israelis dead.
tensions rose in the region after a controversial right-wing "flag march" went ahead in jerusalem on june 15.  israeli police said 17 palestinian protesters were arrested, while the palestinian red crescent said at least 33 palestinian protesters were injured in clashes in the city.
credit: israel defense forces via storyfulburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
opinion by jill filipovic updated 6:06 pm et, tue june 15, 2021 jill filipovic is a journalist based in new york and author of the book "ok boomer, let's talk: how my generation got left behind. "
follow her on twitter.
the opinions expressed in this commentary are solely her own.
view more opinion articles on cnn.
(cnn)you know there's something deeply wrong with american conservatism when a republican member of congress has to go to the us holocaust memorial museum and hold a news conference to admit it's "offensive" to compare capitol hill mask-wearing rules to the holocaust.
sign up for cnn opinion's new newsletter.
join us on twitter and facebook
washington — one after another, some of the most conservative members of the house of representatives took to the stage at the u. s.  capitol on tuesday to denounce dr.  anthony fauci, the top medical adviser to president biden, and to air other pandemic-related grievances.
rep.  marjorie taylor greene, r-ga. , who was introducing a bill to reduce fauci's salary to $0 and have him account for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, led the attacks.
the proposed legislation, called the fire fauci act, stands no chance of passage in a house controlled by democrats.
nevertheless, the highly vituperative affair — replete with reminders that fauci was an "unelected bureaucrat" — was indicative of how the bespectacled, brooklyn-born immunologist continues to be at the center of every ongoing debate related to the coronavirus, including the economic costs of lockdowns (low, says a new study, though there are, of course, social and psychic costs to isolation) and the efficacy of wearing masks (exceptionally high, the discomfort of masking aside).
bitter recriminations over the handling of the pandemic continue to fill the national discourse, even as that pandemic ends.
conservatives believe that restrictions were onerous and unnecessary, while liberals and progressives have criticized former president donald trump's response.
trump frequently undermined and threatened fauci, eventually making dr.  scott atlas, a controversial stanford-affiliated physician, his top coronavirus adviser.
even as the pandemic ebbs in the united states, the attacks against fauci have intensified.
critics have used his emails, released recently under a freedom of information act request, to buttress their claims.
those show that he was uncertain about the efficacy of masks in the early stages of the pandemic.
so were many others at a time early on when how the virus spread was poorly understood.
one email fauci received in january 2020 did raise the possibility of a lab escape, but there is no evidence he concealed critical information about the origins of the virus.
such information has been exceptionally difficult to come by for investigators outside china.
"please cover his emails," greene said.
"get the truth out. "
the emails were extensively covered by the washington post and other outlets, but conservatives who have been suspicious of fauci and the scientific establishment from the start insist that the messages merit more investigation.
taylor and her co-sponsors on the anti-fauci bill (republican reps.  thomas massie of kentucky; andy biggs and paul gosar of arizona; mary miller of illinois; buddy carter of georgia; bob good of virginia; matt gaetz and greg steube of florida; and mo brooks of alabama) claim that fauci knowingly funded research at the wuhan institute of virology that made the virus more lethal.
although that laboratory did receive national institutes of health funding through a new york-based organization called the ecohealth alliance, both fauci and nih director francis collins have explicitly said that chinese grant recipients were prevented from using u. s.  funds for so-called gain-of-function research, which makes a pathogen either more transmissible or more potent to see how it might then behave.
conservatives are unconvinced.
now that fauci is associated with biden, not trump, their attacks are seemingly intended to imply that the new administration is incapable of holding china to account.
biden has, in fact, called for a more complete investigation of how the coronavirus originated.
"were we all victims of a bioweapon?"
wondered greene, a onetime adherent of the qanon conspiracy theory who has also mused about "jewish space lasers" and more recently dismissed evolution.
she demanded "reparations" from the chinese government, which has sought to distance itself from any responsibility for the origins of the virus, going so far as to call for investigations of bioweapons at american facilities.
yet scientists have become increasingly emboldened in arguing that the lab escape theory needs a harder look, with greater cooperation from china.
the notion that china unleashed a bioweapon on the world, however, is not considered a credible hypothesis.
trump was sometimes irritated with fauci's media appearances, and by the high degree of trustworthiness he was afforded by the public.
those grievances plainly persist.
"dr.  fauci leveraged his position as a leading figure in the white house to become a celebrity," charged rep.  biggs.
greene and others spoke standing beside a placard that said: "fauci lied.
people died. "
the words were accompanied by a photo of a masked fauci, who is head of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases.
he has been in the federal government for 40 years and has served seven consecutive presidents, including trump.
firing him would be difficult, since fauci is a senior public servant, not an appointed official.
nor are congressional democrats, or the president, bound to take personnel advice from the most radical members of the opposition party, some of whom called into question biden's legitimate victory in last november's election.
among the participants in tuesday's anti-fauci fusillade was rep.  brooks, who last week was sued by rep.  eric swalwell, d-calif. , for his alleged role in inciting pro-trump rioters on jan.  6.  in response to a question from yahoo news, brooks angrily denied that the anti-china rhetoric on display tuesday could be fueling attacks against asian americans.
he noted that chinese americans "are not necessarily members of the chinese communist party.
"the purpose of tuesday's rally was largely symbolic, more significant in what it says about how conservatives plan to litigate the pandemic in the coming months, ahead of the 2022 midterm elections.
even as life returns to normal in many parts of the country, there remain uncertainties about the upcoming school year, about how long white-collar workers will continue to work from home and just how much effort should go into investigating the origins of the coronavirus, not to mention how to prevent the next pandemic.
"let's not divide people with politics," said greene, who less than 24 hours earlier had called a press conference to apologize for having compared pandemic restrictions to the horrific treatment of jews by nazis during world war ii.
a skilled cultural warrior with little interest in seeking legislative solutions, greene understands that the pandemic remains a motivating issue for both sides of the nation's gaping political divide.
fauci has been living under heightened security for months.
that is likely to continue as long as he remains at the center of conservatives' ire.
last month the national review ran a cover story on what it deemed "the unforced errors of america's political doctor," mockingly depicting him as a would-be saint.
and the anti-vaccine activist robert f.  kennedy jr.  is set to release a book highly critical of fauci in september.
as of monday evening, that book was among the bestselling on amazon.
____read more from yahoo news:airline travel horror stories mount as americans pack the not-so-friendly skiescalifornia and much of the american west face mega-drought brought on by climate changeyahoo news/yougov poll: u. s.  covid worries fall to lowest level ever ahead of memorial daywill face masks be a regular part of life post-pandemic?australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing neitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oa former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
hong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
indiaworld
source: sarah bagharib @sarahbagharib / instagramthe people's association (pa)'s decision to cancel a planned meeting pertaining to the organisation's use of her wedding photograph as a prop in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru is "disappointing", said communications specialist sarah bagharib.
while the standee was subsequently removed and the pa offered her a public apology, the organisation later said it rejects ms sarah's "accusations" of racism, branding the incident "culturally insensitive" and an "isolated case".
pa's move to cancel the meeting, said ms sarah in an instagram post on tuesday (15 june), resulted in "a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue".
such a move has also hampered chances of having "thoughts and suggestions of members of the community to be relayed" to the organisation, she added.
"this incident didn't just affect my husband and i through the 'culturally insensitive' depiction of hari raya celebrations, but also the wider community that celebrates hari raya.
we are all equal stakeholders in the work that pa does," said ms sarah.
however, ms sarah said that she will not be deterred by pa's decision to cancel the meeting.
"we will continue to advocate for deeper intercultural understanding and greater social cohesion in our everyday lives as singaporeans," she said.
a post shared by sarah bagharib (@sarahbagharib)posting on facebook on monday, pa referenced her interview with assistant professor walid, claiming that ms sarah mentioned that the incident has perpetuated a culture of racism.
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said pa. the organisation claimed that it had explained to ms sarah that while it acknowledges that its staff "should have been more culturally sensitive", it is not right to paint "sweeping conclusions from this incident".
doubling down on its point that ms sarah's case was an isolated one, pa said that it finds ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting an "odd" one.
"we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," said pa, adding that it is of the view that ms sarah's purpose in agreeing to meet its representatives "has gone far beyond the radin mas incident".
pa said that it will not be following through with the meeting as there is "no point" in doing so, in light of the above.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters.
we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures," it added.
pa also claimed that ms sarah's 1 june email had falsely alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," it said.
"it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself," pa added.
the short length of the quotes attached by pa in its follow-up post, said playwright alfian sa'at, was suspicious, as "to build a case against someone it is always important to be able to reproduce what they said in full".
"scanning through pa's statement, one would be forgiven if one thought that ms sarah was the one who made the claim that what pa did "perpetuate[d] [a] racist culture".
but she was actually sharing something someone else had written," he noted.
ms sarah had in fact quoted a female chinese clinical psychologist's comment, who wrote:"this whole thread is written with much labour, can we chinese singaporeans please appreciate the labour and educate ourselves on our conditioned racism?
it's long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance–which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them.
"the comment in itself did not state that the act of putting up the offending decorations in itself had perpetuated a culture of racism — rather, it is the cultural ignorance in the process of doing so that is racist, said mr alfian.
ms sarah, he added, did not directly make remarks such as "this racist incident" or "and other similar racist incidents" in the interview.
instead, she said:"allyship plays a big part in promoting true racial harmony–one that goes beyond "racial tolerance".
i am so, so grateful to allies who have used their voices to stand in solidarity with razif and i, and ethnic minority communities, in the aftermath of this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed).
""i think ms sarah has been at pains to assert that all singaporeans, and not just minorities, are stakeholders in the issue.
hers isn't some kind of minority grievance whose aim is to indict an entire majority community," said mr alfian.
referencing pa's claim that its error was not born out of racism, but rather out of "cultural insensitivity", the playwright said that the model of "racial harmony" that the organisation has been operating on "would not recognise that something is racist unless it "disrupts" harmony".
"of course the people at pa would want to distance themselves from "obvious" racists like beow tan, tan boon lee and the gong lady," he said, adding that pleading "cultural insensitivity" is a way of justifying "racism that is not tantamount to public nuisance".
addressing pa's claim that ms sarah had spoken about its "staff and volunteers" being "blind to racism", mr alfian said that he could not find the alleged statement anywhere in the whole interview.
"what i found instead was this, 9 minutes from the end.
walid jokes with her about whether she'd have a teh tarik with melvin yong (the mp on the banner)," he said.
quoting ms sarah:"there was a light-up event, at tiong bahru arcade, where the standee was as well, and i wonder if he saw it?
there was a light up hari raya event, at that very stage.
with his face, and the kampung thing, coconut tree and all of it.
so i wondered if he saw the standee, what he thought about it.
if he did, and he didn't say anything, or think twice, to think that something was wrong about it.
if i had teh tarik with him then i'd like to know if he did see that.
and if he did, and he didn't say anything about it, then something is definitely wrong, right?while there was a comment on internalised racism — on how "we've been so conditioned to think in a certain way.
.
.
that there's nothing wrong with this because people are colour blind, or blind to racism at play.
or there's nothing wrong, because it doesn't impact them" — mr alfian noted that there was "no mention of pa staff or volunteers".
"it's a stretch, but maybe she was questioning whether the mp had noticed that something was wrong–and it's important to underline that these are questions, not accusations," he said.
the playwright questioned whether much of the supposed efforts on those who speak of "racial harmony" are mostly concentrated on the "in progress" part than in doing "the actual work".
"because for me, one of the most important work is dialogue–real dialogue with those on the other side of the aisle, not stage-managed ones of vetted questions and screened guest lists.
i dream of the day when pa can have a dialogue with ms sarah, or when zaobao editors can have one with the scholars who wrote in to them on their coverage of racial issues.
it's a dream that's entirely within reach," he said.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
the development no one saw comingfind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilefind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilecongress greene holocauston the surface, she did everything she was supposed to do.
she made a stupid (very, very stupid) comment; she educated herself on the community she insulted; she apologized without a "sorry, but" in sight.
"one of the best lessons that my father always taught me was when you make a mistake you should own it," said marjorie taylor greene, standing outside the capitol early this week.
"and i have made a mistake .
.
.
so i definitely want to own it. "
greene had recently visited the holocaust museum in washington dc, she explained, and had learned more about the context of her remarks a few weeks ago.
at that time, she compared speaker of the house nancy pelosi's mask mandate to the holocaust and the democratic party to the nazis.
"there is no comparison to the holocaust," she said on monday, ".
.
.
if we're going to lead, we need to be able to lead in a way where if we've messed up it's very important for us to say we're sorry. "
she had realized the importance of accountability after a conversation with her late father, she added.
this is a development few of us expected.
we know the far-right wing of the republican party and their usual approach to criticism: deflect, deflect, deflect.
went on a vacay while the rest of your state was in an energy crisis during a historic snowstorm?
blame it on the kids!
condemn direct action by black lives matter but then watch maga supporters storm the capitol?
blame it on antifa!
lose an election?
blame it on nefarious vote-switching gangs and joe biden's communist friendship with a dead dictator from venezuela!
greene is a little different, though.
she traffics in controversy: claiming that 9/11 might've been an inside job, for instance, or that school shootings might have been nefarious "false flag" operations populated with actors and staged by liberals.
she tries them on for size.
then, when everything feels like it's gotten a little out of hand – like when even some of her own colleagues voted to expel her from two house committees – she begins to backtrack.
what all this allows greene to do is position herself as a politician who listens, who doesn't mind owning up to mistakes, who cares about accountability and responsibility.
whether or not it was responsible to pose absurd questions like whether being made to wear a gold star in nazi germany is the same as being asked to wear a face mask in a grocery store during a pandemic is immaterial.
instead, greene gets to stand in front of cameras and talk about leadership in front of the most recognizable building in the world.
in mopping up after the mess she created herself, she doesn't just keep herself in the headlines (plenty of politicians manage that and fail to benefit); she builds a brand.
the age of shameless, bombastic bluster is over.
greene knows she can't get away with simply throwing out verbal grenades and hoping she does as much damage as possible.
the 2020 election proved that even though many americans are still seduced by trumpian ideals, many now find the man unpalatable.
there's still a place for someone who talks the talk but doesn't walk as much of the walk; someone who plays up the down-to-earth stuff rather than the cult leader stuff.
so, like chrissy teigen apologizing for being a twitter troll in her twenties, greene saunters in and tells us that she's sorry.
she comes from a family line of people who hold themselves up to scrutiny and admit when they find themselves lacking, she tells us.
she got it wrong.
she can hold her head up high and look us in the eye and say: yes, that whole holocaust/mask comparison was a little much, now i've seen the pictures.
she'll stand by the comparison of the democrats to the nazis, though.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliescongress greene holocaustcopyright 2021 the associated press.
all rights reserved.
want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
ngee ann polytechnic (np) is in the process of terminating the employment of senior lecturer tan boon lee who was filmed making racist comments to an interracial couple near orchard road.
the video, uploaded on june 6, went viral.
a few days later, an np alumna took to instagram and accused the lecturer of making islamophobic remarks during class in 2017.  np, in a facebook statement on thursday (june 17), said it has charged tan with a serious breach in its staff code of conduct after having completed investigations into both incidents.
[embed]https://www.
facebook.
com/ngeeannpoly/posts/10159407546654798?__xts__[0]=68.
ardqt5dy5vjg5cp2azsmldnx0ug3hql64lhdcngczwo0caansxanf[/embed]"our staff members are expected to respect cultural, ethnic and religious differences in our society.
they must uphold secularity and impartiality at all times.
"the disciplinary action meted out against the staff in question reflects our commitment to provide a safe, inclusive and respectful environment for our campus community," np said.
np added in their statement that police investigations are ongoing.
also read: man makes racist remarks to interracial couple in viral video; shanmugam says incident is 'very worrying'alexanderkt@asiaone.
com

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                is the article 150 power to declare or revoke an emergency or to set up a national operations council as in 1969 a discretionary or a non-discretionary function?our constitution has invested the yang di-pertuan agong with vast powers and functions in the executive, legislative and judicial fields and in relation to islam.
a computer check indicates that the words "yang di-pertuan agong" occur in the federal constitution 274 times!if all of these 274 mentions indicate the existence of discretionary powers, then his majesty is obviously an absolute and not a constitutional monarch.
it is submitted that the proper approach to constitutional interpretation is that no provision conferring power and function on the king should be interpreted literally or in isolation but must be read in the light of articles 40(1) and 40(1a), which require his majesty to act on advice.
articles 40 and 40(1a) must be grafted onto every article where the words "yang di-pertuan agong" occur unless the provision explicitly confers discretion.
the powers and functions of our king are divisible into two broad categories:> non-discretionary functions, which are exercised on advice and constitute the bulk of his functions.
concerning these, the monarch may advise, caution, warn and delay but must, in the last resort, accept the advice rendered; and> discretionary powers, which are exercised in his own judgment.
the king may consult anyone including his brother rulers, the prime minister, attorney general, respected public or private figures, or any experts he may choose to summon to the palace.
but ultimately, the mantle of responsibility falls on his great shoulders.
discretionary functions are mentioned in article 40(2) and cover the following critical matters of state: appointment of a prime minister; withholding of consent to a request for dissolution of parliament; convening of the conference of rulers; and "any other case mentioned in this constitution".
it is submitted that the words "any other case mentioned in this constitution" must mean "any other case (explicitly) mentioned", for example concerning the appointment of the public service commission under article 139(4); appointment of the education service commission under article 141a(2); appointment of other commission members under article 143(1)(a); and appointment of state governors under the 8th schedule, item 19a.
in several situations, the king's personal discretion is necessarily implied.
these situations are the right under article 40(1) to ask for any information from the government; delaying legislation by 30 days under article 66(4a); appointment of a caretaker prime minister after parliament is dissolved under article 43(2); and appointment of an interim, minority, provisional or unity government if there is a deeply fractured or "hung parliament" with no faction commanding an absolute majority.
in the past few weeks, the question on many lips is whether the article 150 power to declare or revoke an emergency or to set up a national operations council as in 1969 is a discretionary or non-discretionary function.
it is submitted that the king's emergency powers are exercisable on advice.
despite the subjective language of clause (1) of article 150 ("if the yang di-pertuan agong is satisfied"), it is noticeable that nowhere in article 150 is there any explicit mention of personal discretion.
in several court cases, like stephen kalong ningkan v tun abang haji openg and tawi sli (no 2) (1967), m madhavan nair (1975), and teh cheng poh (1979), it has been ruled that emergency powers are subject to article 40(1).
in teh cheng poh, there is this telling statement from the privy council that when one finds in the constitution or federal law powers conferred upon the yang di-pertuan agong that are expressed to be exercisable if he is of opinion or is satisfied, the reference to his opinion or satisfaction is, in reality, a reference to the collective opinion or satisfaction of members of the cabinet.
despite the above judicial decisions, there are contrasting views that article 150 powers are independent of the prime minister's advice.
these views are anchored on several facts.
first, in 1983, then prime minister datuk seri dr mahathir mohamad pushed through parliament the constitution (amendment) act 1983, which amended article 150 to read: "if the prime minister is satisfied that a grave emergency exists he shall advise the yang di-pertuan agong accordingly and the yang di-pertuan agong shall then issue a proclamation".
this amendment elicited strong opposition from the conference of rulers and was repealed in early 1984. the story behind the repeal lends credence to the view that emergency powers under article 150 are not subject to the prime minister's advice and are personal to the monarch.
second, in october 2020, the present yang di-pertuan agong is known to have refused the prime minister's advice to proclaim an emergency.
the refusal was not challenged in a court of law by the prime minister and sets a political precedent of the throne supplying a check and balance against the political executive's use of emergency powers.
third, the emergency ordinance of jan 14, this year, in section 2 establishes an "independent special committee" appointed by the king "to advise the yang di-pertuan agong on the continuing existence of the grave emergency".
why have this independent committee if the king is bound by cabinet advice?fourth, in the case of pp v mohd amin mohd razali (2000), the learned judge, zulkefli j. , suggested that in relation to article 150's emergency powers, though the king is bound by the advice of the prime minister, the prime minister whose advice is binding on the king must be one with democratic legitimacy in parliament.
on may 15, 1969, there was no parliament and the prime minister was a caretaker prime minister without parliamentary backing.
the judge ruled that in some circumstances, like during the dissolution of parliament when the prime minister is a mere caretaker, the king is not bound by the advice of the prime minister and can act independently.
perhaps the mohd amin mohd razali precedent will also apply if the prime minister is an interim prime minister (like dr mahathir was in february 2020).
what about our circumstances today?there is a duly appointed prime minister and cabinet in place.
an emergency is in operation.
under section 11 of the ordinance of jan 14, the prime minister and cabinet have the security of tenure as long as the emergency lasts, i. e.  till aug 1. parliament is in suspension under section 14 of the ordinance.
but on aug 1, the laws about parliament to reconvene will kick in.
the guarantee of security of tenure for the prime minister will expire.
it is a matter of conjecture whether the prime minister will seek an extension of the emergency.
what if the prime minister faces a vote of no-confidence in the reconvened house (or if the house is not in session), a challenge to his authority under the datuk seri nizar jamaluddin precedent of 2009 in perak?is the king entitled under the constitution's spirit of parliamentary democracy to advise the prime minister to settle the issue of confidence first before seeking an extension to the existing emergency proclamation or the issuance of a new one?what if, after aug 1, the prime minister loses a vote of no-confidence in the house and nobody else can secure a stable majority in the "hung parliament"?will this be a ground for the king to act independently to proclaim a new emergency due to the collapse of civil government and to set up a national operations council?these are untested and untried issues.
what adds further complexity is that under article 150(8), the satisfaction of the yang di-pertuan agong cannot be challenged in a court of law.
the writer is the holder of the tunku abdul rahman chair at um, and the tun hussein onn chair at isis malaysia.
the views expressed here are entirely his own.
tags / keywords:
emergency powers; yang dipertuan agong

topic:



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
singapore: as singapore begins to vaccinate younger age groups against covid-19, some companies have introduced measures to encourage employees to get their jabs and to support those who may suffer side effects.
the registration exercise for singaporeans aged 12 to 39 began on jun 11.  this is a big group of about 1.
5 million people, health minister ong ye kung had said.
beyond giving employees time off to get vaccinated, companies cna spoke to said they have other support initiatives in place.
at singtel, for instance, employees are entitled to sick leave on the day of vaccination.
they can also work from home for a week after if they feel unwell, said the company's chief human resources officer aileen tan.
employees are also covered under the company's insurance plan, which defrays the cost of medical expenses for any sickness or disability resulting from the vaccination, said ms tan.
she added that singtel also invited infectious diseases expert dr leong hoe nam to clarify any doubts staff members may have about the vaccine.
more than 90 per cent of singtel employees in frontline roles, such as retail staff and field engineers, are fully vaccinated, said ms tan.
at ocbc bank, employees taking the vaccine are given a day off for each appointment, as well as private taxi reimbursement to and from the vaccination centres.
if they experience side effects, they may take an additional two days of medical leave without needing to provide a medical certificate.
the company will reimburse any medical consultation fees as well, said mr ernest phang, head of corporate services under group human resources.
"for those who decided to go ahead with (getting vaccinated), we will provide the necessary support to them because we understand the anxiety and stress that comes from having to make such a decision," he added.
similarly at uob, those who suffer side effects can tap the company's appointed panel of clinics for free medical consultation.
they also have life and health insurance that covers covid-19 infection and vaccination side effects.
"those who feel unwell after the vaccination are advised to consult a doctor immediately and to be on medical leave as advised by the doctor," said head of group human resources dean tong.
the side effects of the covid-19 vaccine include fever, chills, headaches, joint pain and tiredness.
"most side effects are mild or moderate, and usually get better within a few days," said the ministry of health.
according to the us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), side effects after the second shot may be more intense than after the first dose.
in addition, younger people are more likely to experience side effects compared to older people, said the cdc.
to allow employees to obtain online approval for essential facility visits and report covid-19 cases, sembcorp industries has come up with an app that was developed in-house.
"with the health and safety of our employees as our top priority in this pandemic, sembcorp has introduced a covid-19 app for employees to obtain online approval for essential facility visits, as well as to report cases," a spokesperson said.
the app also allows employees to provide voluntary updates on their vaccination status.
companies cna spoke to stressed that it is important for employees to rest if they don't feel well after vaccination.
"in the event that (employees) feel unwell after their vaccination, we encourage them to take ample rest to recover," said an ntuc fairprice spokesperson, adding that as frontline workers, its employees were given priority for vaccination earlier this year.
"fairprice encourages all staff to be vaccinated, and to allay any concerns as well as to address queries, we invite medical experts to conduct online talks so that staff are better informed on the benefits of vaccination.
"our leadership team also seeks to motivate staff by serving as an example and going for the vaccination when it is their turn," the spokesperson said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — while the use of a malay-muslim couple's wedding photo as a standee in hari raya decorations by the people's association (pa) last month was "culturally insensitive", it was certainly not "racist", said the pa in a facebook post on monday (14 june).
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said the pa in a detailed post, adding that it saw "no point" in proceeding with an arranged meeting with sarah bagharib and her husband razif abdullah.
in an instagram post on 28 may, sarah had highlighted the use of the photo to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas member of parliament melvin yong and his hari raya wishes for residents.
noting that neither she nor her husband had given consent for the photo to be used by the pa, sarah added, "the inappropriate appropriation and use of our cultural symbol only succeeded in showing people('s) association's superficial understanding of malay/singaporean muslim culture".
the post has garnered almost 18,000 likes.
in its post on monday, the pa noted that it had removed the standee and apologised to the couple, as well as posting a public apology on its social media platforms.
its post on 29 may revealed that warabi enterprise (art studio) had been engaged by radin mas constituency office (co) to design and put up hari raya decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
however, in the process, the vendor downloaded sarah's photo from an online source and then used it for a cut-out standee.
and while the pa spoke to the vendor on the seriousness of the incident, it stressed, "the pa, including radin mas co, take responsibility for this error as we have oversight of the matter.
"in addition, the pa offered on monday to meet with the couple to apologise in person.
"we also wished to clarify our position, elaborate on the steps we have taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how we might improve at the meeting.
"however, it claimed that sarah had said this incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and characterised the incident as "racist".
in an instagram live interview with walid j.  abdullah last tuesday, said the pa, she also insinuated that pa staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
"these are accusations we reject," said the pa. furthermore, in sarah's public social media posts about her upcoming meeting with the pa, she had made a public call for anyone to "please share your messages/suggestions to pa here and we'll share them".
"we find this odd," said the pa.  "we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident.
"the pa added, "all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"it also claimed that sarah's email to the pa on 1 june alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"this is untrue.
the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," said the pa.  "it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself.
"we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"pa also said it is looking at setting up a resource panel to guide its staff on cultural matters, and stepping up training to enhance its staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of different cultures.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:of 25 new covid cases in singapore, 19 local including 1 dorm residentman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
 share copiedgalaxy soho, a commercial complex developed by soho china, beijing, china, september 23, 2021.
/cfpoffice developer soho china on wednesday said it received a takeover offer from private equity giant blackstone group for hk$23.
66 billion ($3.
05 billion).
the company said its listing on the hong kong stock exchange would be maintained after the offer is closed, and its existing shareholders will retain 9 percent of the equity.
soho china's stock price surged 48 percent last week, marking the biggest jump since its ipo in 2007. according to its website, soho china has developed 54 million square feet of properties.
(with input from reuters)copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore testing for covid-19 was quick and smooth at the void deck of block 80d telok blangah street 31, as stallholders and cleaners from the telok blangah drive food centre and market turned up for mandatory swabbing on thursday morning (june 17).
the temporary test site was set up after a second worker at the food centre was confirmed to be infected on wednesday.
when the straits times (st) visited the site, there was some crowding at the entrance as hawkers showed up early for appointments scheduled from 9am, but it cleared quickly as testing commenced.
the testing was to go on till 4pm.
an mp for west coast grc, ms rachel ong, who was present, told st that around 100 stallholders and 30 cleaners were expected to be swabbed.
the hawker centre is closed for deep cleaning and disinfection from wednesday afternoon till friday.
ms ong told st that the community has been understanding and supportive.
"i think everyone knows that this is the correct thing to do, and there was a lot of support," she said.
she added that the hawkers were thankful for recent rental rebates.
on further support for stallholders and hawkers, she said: "we are still assessing it with our grassroots volunteers, and the president of our shopkeepers and stallholders association.
.
.
so if we can help, we will do our best.
"among those tested was 76-year-old hawker lim kwang how, who operates a yong tau foo stall at the market.
he arrived at around 9am to get swabbed.
"the swab test was done quickly and smoothly and i did not experience any discomfort," mr lim said in mandarin, adding that there were no queues inside the swab centre.
another hawker, madam ng guek eng, 56, who arrived early for her 10am appointment, expressed concerns about having to close for longer than three days.
madam ng, who has been operating a carrot cake stall at the food centre for 26 years, said in mandarin: "we are also not sure when it will open, and hopefully there will not be a lot of cases.
if there is an increase in cases, there will be a need to lock down or close for longer.
"already, she will have to dispose of unused ingredients such as eggs, which have been delivered.
"we will definitely face a loss of income," she added.
stallholders and cleaners from the telok blangah drive food centre and market turning up for mandatory swabbing on june 17.  st photo: gavin foo
mr manfred tham, 31, who owns a fish stall at the wet market, said there was no queue in the swabbing centre when he arrived and that the whole process was conducted smoothly.
he added that his stall will be closed for three days and he expects it to be back in operation by saturday.
"i was lucky that i didn't buy a lot of  stock and sold most of it before the closure," he said.
mr tham added that he will be taking extra precautions, such as  staying at home during the closure and washing his hands frequently.
the most recently detected case at the telok blangah drive food centre was a 33-year-old singaporean woman who works there part time.
she is a household contact of an earlier case confirmed on monday a 42-year-old singaporean man who is a hawker at the telok blangah drive food centre.
he has been linked to the cluster at the bukit merah view market.
a 12-year-old singaporean girl who attends chij st theresa's convent is a family member and household contact of these two cases.
the girl tested positive on tuesday.
all three were already in quarantine from monday.
there are 39 cases in the bukit merah view food centre cluster as at thursday.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
charmaine ngthe straits timesjune 16, 2021at least one retail worker at ion orchard was injured after a glass panel shattered on the first day of the mall's reopening on wednesday (june 16).
the man, who was wearing a staff lanyard from make-up brand bobbi brown, had cuts on his arms.
three singapore civil defence force (scdf) officers were seen arriving at the scene at around 11.
20am.
blood splatter on the floor could be seen among the shattered glass.
responding to queries from the straits times, a spokesman for ion orchard said a single glass panel at the bobbi brown store shattered at around 11am.
"the incident occurred when the store was being opened for the day by its store assistant," said the spokesman.
the store assistant suffered some cuts and first-aid was immediately rendered by ion staff.
"we are in touch with the bobbi brown staff and the management, and will render additional support to them as necessary," the spokesman added.
a spokesman for scdf said that it received a call for assistance at ion orchard at about 11.
10am, and later took a person to the singapore general hospital.
before the incident, retail staff at ion orchard were seen busy tidying up their wares and preparing their storefronts in anticipation of shoppers returning after a four-day closure for deep cleaning and disinfection.
the mall was ordered to close from last saturday to tuesday by the ministry of health, after a number of covid-19 cases were linked to it.
on wednesday, the mall, which has 400 retailers, reopened its doors at 10am.
at some stores, staff were seen dusting their display shelves and racks.
but not all stores were ready to welcome customers by 11am.
british luxury fashion house burberry and japanese department store muji were among those that remained shuttered.
in a circular to tenants on wednesday, ion orchard said only shops whose staff have all been swabbed and tested negative are allowed to reopen.
it added: "you are expected to make the necessary arrangements to begin your operations and ensure the stores are manned accordingly.
"still, about a dozen shoppers were seen at the mall, including ms liyana laily, 29, who works in quality assurance.
a view from inside ion orchard after it reopened on june 16, 2021.  st photo: kevin lima view from inside ion orchard after it reopened on june 16, 2021.  st photo: kevin limshe decided to pop by the mall as she was in the area.
she was not aware that ion orchard had been closed for four days owing to covid-19.
"but i'm not worried.
singapore has a certain standard of cleanliness and obviously they want business to come back, so they would put in effort to maintain that standard," she said.
another shopper who wanted to be known only as mr koda, 41, also dropped by the mall to buy a pair of shoes for his two-year-old son.
he, too, was not concerned about the recent covid-19 cases linked to the mall.
"if anything, this would be the cleanest place in singapore after all that cleaning," said mr koda, who works in the energy sector.
"and singapore does a good job of cleaning, so i'm not worried," he added.
get a copy of the straits times or go to straitstimes.
com for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
tokyo: japan is set to outline how it will lift its "state of emergency" curbs while keeping some restrictions, including spectator numbers at big events, amid fears that next month's olympics could trigger a new wave of covid-19 infections.
media reports say the government is considering allowing up to 10,000 spectators into stadiums during the games, in line with a plan endorsed by health experts on wednesday (jun 16) for local events.
later on thursday, prime minister yoshihide suga is due to announce a decision on the state of emergency for tokyo, osaka and seven other prefectures, which expires on jun 20. instead of removing all lockdown measures, the government is seeking to call a "quasi-emergency" in seven of those prefectures, economy minister yasutoshi nishimura said on thursday, meaning some curbs will remain in place.
the southern island prefecture okinawa, currently battling a surge in infections, is widely expected to remain in a state of emergency.
the one-notch easing of the emergency restrictions would come just over a month before the tokyo olympics, delayed last year because of the covid-19 pandemic, is due to start on jul 23. to avoid a resurgence of the pandemic, japan, which is due to decide this month on whether to allow domestic spectators at the games, will likely keep restrictions on the flow of people, including the olympics.
health experts including top medical adviser shigeru omi on wednesday agreed with a government plan that would permit up to 10,000 spectators or 50 per cent of a venue's capacity, whichever is smaller, at events, under certain conditions.
the mainichi and other media reported the government was aiming to allow spectators into the games, using the 10,000 cap.
a decision on the maximum number of spectators for the olympics is due by the end of the month.
polls have shown most japanese remain wary of the games, particularly as vaccination rates are still lower than in other wealthy nations.
omi previously called on the government to better explain to the public how it expects to prevent infections while hosting the games.
public broadcaster nhk said on thursday that omi and other health experts had compiled proposals for the games.
the proposals will state that banning live spectators will be the least risky way method, and that if spectators are to be allowed, there should be more restrictions than those applied to other large-scale events.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday unveiled a four-phase, post-pandemic exit plan on the eve of a crucial meeting of malaysia's sultans that could decide on his political future.
tan sri muhyiddin, in a televised address, unveiled the national recovery plan, which projects that from september, malaysia might gradually open up its economy, social sectors and also parliament.
parliament and the 13 state legislatures have not sat this year.
"we cannot continue like this.
we need to exit this crisis as soon as possible," he told malaysians, indicating that the current lockdown is costing the government rm1 billion (s$322 million) a day.
the country is undergoing its third nationwide lockdown to tame the latest covid-19 surge.
he described the current lockdown as the first phase of the exit plan.
the second phase, where covid-19 curbs will be slightly relaxed while retaining social sector and travel bans, will start once daily new infections fall below 4,000 cases, and also after 10 per cent of the population has been fully inoculated.
this is expected to take place in july and august.
the third phase, earmarked for the beginning of september, will see most sectors of the economy allowed to open by default, while some curbs on social sectors remain.
for this, daily cases have to dip below 2,000 a day and 40 per cent of the population has to be fully vaccinated.
a full reopening is projected from november, once 60 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated and daily cases dip below 500 a day, he said.
malaysia has been struggling to bring down its covid-19 infections this year, with daily cases hitting a record 9,020 on may 29.  the number went below 1,000 only once this year, at 941 cases on march 29. mr muhyiddin's address to the nation came hours after he had an audience with malaysia's king, sultan abdullah ahmad shah.
sultan abdullah will meet the eight other sultans at a special conference of rulers meeting today at 2.
30pm, where they are expected to discuss the handling of the crisis by the muhyiddin administration.
also expected to be discussed is the national state of emergency that is supposed to end on aug 1. mr muhyiddin in january gained the king's consent to declare a state of emergency that suspended parliament and state legislatures, and also postponed several by-elections to allow the government to focus on battling the pandemic.
but covid-19 cases have only worsened since then, with movement curbs imposed for the third time last month, which was also the deadliest month since the pandemic began in january last year.
mr muhyiddin imposed a total lockdown from june 1, and it has now been extended till june 28. malaysia recorded 5,419 new infections yesterday, bringing total infections to 667,876. the country is speeding up vaccinations.
on monday, malaysia registered its highest vaccination rate to date, giving 197,963 doses.
of its 33 million people, 10 per cent have now received at least one dose, while 59 per cent of adults have registered for vaccination.
the drug control authority (dca) yesterday approved two single-dose vaccines, cansino from china and the us johnson & johnson vaccine.
it currently uses three two-dose vaccines pfizer-biontech, sinovac and astrazeneca.
dca yesterday also approved the use of the pfizer-biontech vaccine for those who are at least 12 years old.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
you're reading an excerpt from the today's worldview newsletter.
sign up to get the rest, including news from around the globe, interesting ideas and opinions to know, sent to your inbox every weekday.
the coronavirus has the habit of upending the best-laid plans.
and right now, the delta variant, the fast-spreading version of the virus first detected in india last year, is changing the rules of the game as the world tries to exit the pandemic.
in britain this week, prime minister boris johnson, fresh off the world stage at his group of seven summit, announced that a long-planned final lifting of all coronavirus restrictions in england on june 21 would be delayed by four weeks because of the fast-spreading variant, which now makes up an estimated 90 percent of new cases in britain.
"we know the remorseless logic of exponential growth," said johnson, who pointed to rising case numbers, adding that pushing back the full reopening of the country until july 19 would save thousands of lives.
there was no greater evidence of that remorseless logic than just a few weeks earlier, when india experienced a devastating surge as the delta variant spread widely.
although new daily cases in india have fallen from their peak — a record-breaking roughly 400,000 a day in early may — they still remain alarmingly high, with around 62,000 new daily cases reported on wednesday.
speaking at an online briefing wednesday, maria van kerkhove, the world health organization's covid-19 technical lead, said that the delta variant had been detected in more than 80 countries around the world and that public health experts are keeping tabs on potential additional mutations to it.
in the united states, where officials said last week that the delta variant accounts for around 6 percent of new cases, the centers for disease control and prevention has added delta to its list of "variants of concern.
"the variant may not yet upend u. s.  reopening plans, but combined with the slower than expected pace of vaccinations in recent weeks, some experts are urging caution.
"if you're living in a part of the country where there's a low degree of vaccination or you yourself are not vaccinated, you're clearly vulnerable because this is basically covid-19 on steroids," andy slavitt, a former senior adviser on the coronavirus response for the biden administration, told the washington post's yasmeen abutaleb.
the big problem is that the coronavirus has spread so far and wide that it has plenty of opportunity to mutate.
the who has tracked more than 50 different strains.
though most are not considered of extra concern, four have been labeled as being of particular concern, one of which is b.
1.
617.
2 — the scientific name of the delta variant.
since it was first detected in india last october, researchers have studied delta closely.
they soon discovered that it has two mutations on the spike protein that help the coronavirus latch onto healthy cells.
these mutations have helped make the variant more infectious.
delta is 60 percent more infectious than alpha, a variant first detected in britain, according to u. k.  officials.
there are also some studies that suggest it causes greater rates of hospitalization, though the evidence there is still limited.
the good news is that vaccinations still work well in protecting people who are fully vaccinated against the delta variant.
the u. k.  studies show that both the pfizer-biontech and oxford-astrazeneca vaccines are highly effective at protecting against symptomatic disease when the full two-dose regime is administered (with efficacy rates of 88 percent and 60 percent, respectively).
however, the efficacy of both vaccines drops to 33 percent if only one dose is administered.
this is one reason governments are now pushing to ensure that people receive both doses.
in britain, where the government had previously favored delaying the second dose, residents are being encouraged to complete their immunizations.
the u. k.  is already seeing some results: britain has now fully immunized roughly 45 percent of its population, slightly ahead of the united states.
although the delta variant emerged via natural processes, man-made factors have aided its spread.
in britain, the focus on prioritizing first doses may have come back to bite the country.
many critics of the government also say that restrictions on travel from india were put in place too late because of political concerns.
in india itself, the wide spread of the variant this spring may have been helped by a combination of loosened government restrictions and a slow vaccine rollout (even now, india has fully vaccinated only 3.
5 percent of its population, in part due to significant global supply problems).
the delta variant has put a speed bump in the world's path out of the pandemic.
and britain may not be the first country to take its foot off the accelerator of reopening and instead move to speed up vaccinations in the hope of outpacing it.
but there will also have to be a broader debate about how to not just mitigate the delta variant's short-term spread within national borders, but how to tamp down the global spread of the virus and stop even worse variants from proliferating in the first place.
cases are rising in many parts of the world.
across africa, there has been a 44 percent increase in the number of weekly cases, who officials said wednesday.
the continent had received less than 2 percent of the world's vaccine supply by may, according to the united nations.
though wealthy nations pledged at the g-7 to do more to share doses, few experts believe that is enough to end the gap — and that shortfall runs the risk of creating even nastier variants than delta.
as the who's van kerkhove said wednesday: "we don't want to be in a situation where the virus changes enough that we go back to square one.
this is why we need to prevent as many infections as we can right now.
"coronavirus maps: cases and deaths in the u. s.  | cases and deaths worldwidevaccines: younger teens | tracker by state | guidance for vaccinated people | how long does immunity last?
| county-level vaccine datawhat you need to know: variants | symptoms guide | masks faq | your life at home | personal finance guide | follow all of our coverage and sign up for our free newslettergot a pandemic question?
we answer one every day in our coronavirus newsletterare you still deciding whether you'll get a covid-19 vaccine?
let us know.
the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
submitted by stomper diyaclick here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
a 28-year-old passenger was taken to hospital after an accident involving two cars in ang mo kio on tuesday afternoon (june 15).
in response to a stomp query, the police said they were alerted to the accident at the junction of ang mo kio avenue 5 and ang mo kio avenue 6 at 3.
16pm.
the female car passenger was conscious when taken to hospital.
a video submitted by stomper diya shows two white damaged cars at the scene.
police investigations are ongoing.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
(bloomberg) -- chinese president xi jinping is renewing his years-long push to achieve technology self-sufficiency by tapping a top deputy to shepherd a key initiative aimed at helping domestic chipmakers overcome u. s.  sanctions.
liu he, xi's economic czar whose sprawling portfolio spans trade to finance and technology, has been tapped to spearhead the development of so-called third-generation chip development and capabilities and is leading the formulation of a series of financial and policy supports for the technology, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
it's a nascent field that relies on newer materials and gear beyond traditional silicon and is currently an arena where no company or nation yet dominates, offering beijing one of its best chances to sidestep the hurdles slapped on its chipmaking industry by the u. s.  and its allies.
the sanctions, which emerged during donald trump's presidency, have already smothered huawei technologies co. 's smartphone business and will impede longer-term efforts by chipmakers from huawei's hisilicon to semiconductor manufacturing international corp.  to migrate toward more advanced wafer fabrication technologies, threatening china's technological ambitions.
"china is the world's largest user of chips, so supply chain security is of high priority," said gu wenjun, chief analyst at research firm icwise.
"it's not possible for any country to control the entire supply chain, but a country's effort is definitely stronger than a single company.
"the involvement of one of xi's most-trusted lieutenants in china's chip efforts highlights the importance accorded by beijing to the initiative, which is gaining urgency as rivals from the u. s.  to japan and south korea scramble to shore up their own industries.
the chinese president has long called upon his harvard-educated adviser to tackle matters of top national priority, making him the chief representative in trade negotiations with the u. s.  as well as chairman of the financial stability and development committee, where liu leads the charge to curb risks in the nation's $5-trillion-plus financial sector.
in may, liu spearheaded a meeting of the technology task force that discussed ways to grow next-generation semiconductor technologies, according to a government statement.
the 69-year-old vice premier, who has led the country's technology reform task force since 2018, is also overseeing projects that could lead to breakthroughs in traditional chipmaking, including the development of china's own chip design software and extreme ultraviolet lithography machines, one of the people said, asking not to be identified as they weren't authorized to speak to media.
the state council and the ministry of industry and information technology didn't respond to faxed requests for comment.
during trade negotiations with the trump administration, liu emerged as one of the most visible advocates of beijing's agenda.
he's known xi since childhood -- both are sons of veteran communist party leaders and were among masses of young people dispatched to work in impoverished rural areas during the cultural revolution.
now, liu is leading the charge to reform the tech sector, which was identified in china's latest five-year economic plan as a key strategic area in which the "whole nation system" should be used to mobilize any necessary resources.
first introduced under mao zedong to help the then-fledgling communist china industrialize, the approach was crucial to helping beijing attain a number of top national priorities, from developing its first atomic bomb in the early 1960s to achieving olympic sporting success.
after that it was largely set aside as officials shifted to focus on economic growth.
but following a series of u. s.  sanctions that exposed the vulnerabilities of china's chip capabilities, xi is once again reactivating the mechanism to achieve breakthroughs in advanced chip development and manufacturing.
about a trillion dollars of government funding have been set aside under the technology initiative, part of which will be used by central and local governments to jointly invest in a series of third-generation chip projects, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
top chipmakers and research institutes have submitted proposals to the ministries of science and information technology, all vying for a place in the national program and a share of the financing.
the ministry of science and technology is slated to inject 400 million yuan ($62 million) into some key "strategic electronics materials" including third-generation chips, according to a government document.
even moonshot chip programs are in line for government funding.
the state-backed national natural science foundation of china has pledged financial support for dozens of exploratory research programs, ranging from ultra-low power consumption to the development of a flexible chip that can collect and transmit nerve signals, as beijing seeks to overcome "computing bottlenecks" when moore's law -- the industry standard for predicting the pace of chip improvements -- finally stops working.
several subsidiaries of china electronics technology group corp.  and china railway construction corp.  -- organizations already sanctioned by the u. s.  -- are among the state-backed firms backing the effort, one of the people said.
another government-linked giant, china electronics corp. , is one of the leaders in third-generation chip development, thanks to its investment in smaller firms including cec semiconductor co.  using its own in-house technology, cec semiconductor makes silicone carbide-based power devices that can work at 200 degrees celsius (360 degrees fahrenheit) for a number of key industries from telecommunications to electric cars -- reducing china's reliance on overseas suppliers such as infineon technologies ag, rohm co.  and cree inc. shares of chipmakers climbed, with smic rallying more than 8% in shanghai, set for its biggest one-day gain since october.
shares of national silicon industry group co. , will semiconductor co.  and maxscend microelectronics co.  also advanced.
sanan optoelectronics co.  and wingtech technology co.  -- among firms seen as potential beneficiaries of china's third-generation chip effort -- gained 10% and 8%, respectively.
the task of coordinating that sprawling program now falls to liu, who has to keep track of the relevant resources and drive the national strategy to help china achieve chip independence.
"for our country, technology and innovation is not just a matter of growth," liu told a three-story auditorium packed with china's top scientists in a separate meeting in may.
"it's also a matter of survival.
"read more: biden needs more than $52 billion to counter china in chipsxi is counting on his lieutenant to help china fend off growing threats from the u. s. , which is seeking to take back chip industry supremacy.
under the trump administration, sanctions were slapped on chinese giants from huawei to smic, cutting off their access to american technology and equipment crucial to designing and making advanced logic chips.
president joe biden has also laid out a $52 billion plan to bolster domestic chip manufacturing, while calling on allies to join export controls aimed at curbing beijing's drive toward technology self-sufficiency.
rival powerhouse nations like south korea and leading corporations such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co.  have also responded with their own spending plans, fueling the race to take the lead in the sector.
read more: china revs up grand chip ambitions to counter u. s.  blacklistingswith traditional chipmaking facing a series of challenges from technology development to heavy capital investment, third-generation chips -- which use compounds such as gallium nitride and silicon carbide to significantly improve the performance of semiconductors that power a wide range of industries and products -- may offer china its best chance to overcome rivals, senior academic mao junfa told an industry event in nanjing earlier this month.
"china couldn't buy chips, even with cash in hand," he said, referring to washington's sanctions on chinese tech companies including huawei.
"the compound chip technologies could help china surpass rivals in the post-moore's law era.
"(update with share performance of chipmakers in 13th paragraph.
)more stories like this are available on bloomberg.
comsubscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.
©2021 bloomberg l. p. related quotesnadella, who took over as ceo in 2014 from steve ballmer, has been instrumental in scaling up its business including billion-dollar acquisitions like linkedin, nuance communications and zenimax.
the company said thompson, who took over as chairman from the software giant's co-founder bill gates in 2014, will serve as lead independent director.
world bank said it could not assist el salvador's bitcoin implementation due to the environmental impact of bitcoin mining, and transparency drawbacks.
(bloomberg) -- fwd, the acquisitive asian insurer backed by billionaire richard li, has filed confidentially for a u. s.  initial public offering, moving ahead with preparations for a long-awaited listing.
the holding company of fwd ltd.  and fwd group ltd.  has confidentially submitted a draft registration with the u. s.  securities and exchange commission for the planned share sale, according to a statement on thursday.
the statement, which confirms an earlier bloomberg news report, didn't specify thwashington (reuters) -the u. s.  justice department filed a lawsuit on wednesday aimed at stopping insurance broker aon's $30 billion acquisition of willis towers watson because it would reduce competition and could lead to higher prices.
the deal would combine the second and third largest of the "big three" global insurance brokers, the department said.
the third is marsh mclennan.
fa center  lumber prices have experienced one of their biggest and quickest plunges in history— with the spot futures contract dropping more than $670, or 40%, in just 25 trading sessions.
it's human nature to try to find meaning in this, since the alternative is to accept that price changes this momentous are nothing more than merely random fluctuations.
center for european policy analysis president and ceo alina polyakova, joined yahoo finance live to break down biden's meetings with the g-7 leaders.
&nbsp;(bloomberg) -- china is resorting to increasingly forceful measures to contain risks to the financial system, in moves that threaten to undermine president xi jinping's pledge to give markets greater freedom.
authorities have in recent weeks ordered state firms to curb their overseas commodities exposure, forced domestic banks to hold more foreign currencies, considered a cap on thermal coal prices, censored searches for crypto exchanges and effectively banned brokers from publishing bullish equifed chairman jerome powell downplayed "dot plots" showing two rate hikes by the end of 2023. there's one group of borrowers that can count themselves as 'lucky' during periods of inflation.
the money transfer business has opted for a direct listing with dual class share structure and a scheme to let customers become shareholders.
which stocks are analysts the most bullish on?
stocks with no 'hold' or 'sell' ratings and a pure "strong buy" analyst consensus to boot.
using tipranks database, we set out to pinpoint 3 stocks that command the unanimous support of the street.
not to mention each ticker offers pretty serious upside potential.
let's take a closer look.
imedia brands (imbi) let's start in the digital world, the virtual universe that has wrought such enormous changes to every aspect of our lives in just the lastin this article, we discuss the top chinese companies on nasdaq.
if you want to skip our detailed analysis of these companies, go directly to the top 5 chinese companies on nasdaq.
chinese companies have taken the american stock market by storm in recent years as beijing gradually opens up to investments from the outside [.
.
.
]geneva — president joe biden and russian president vladimir putin have agreed to begin "working-level" discussions in a bid to strike a long-term bargain before the only major arms control on the books expires in 2026. biotech stocks are surging in june on a raft of upbeat news from biogen.
it's a turnaround from a spring drubbing.
beijing (reuters) -bytedance founder zhang yiming told staff on thursday that he's already shifting away from chief executive's daily responsibilities and his work pace is less intense, according to two people who attended the meeting.
in may, zhang unexpectedly announced that he will step down as ceo of the tiktok owner amid chinese' regulators' tightened scrutiny of the country's biggest technology firms.
zhang told staff he is currently studying other companies' organizational structures and managing styles, and doing research on the education industry.
president biden and russian president vladimir putin plowed through a list of disputes during their wednesday summit in geneva, including cybersecurity and human rights.
nancy cordes has the latest.
china's market regulator has begun an antitrust probe into didi chuxing, three people with knowledge of the matter said, just as the ride-hailing giant is pushing ahead with what could be the largest initial public offering in the united states this year.
the probe, reported here for the first time, is the latest in a sweeping crackdown on china's so-called "platform" companies, including alibaba group holding ltd and tencent holdings ltd.   china's market regulator, the state administration for market regulation (samr), is investigating whether didi used any competitive practices that squeezed out smaller rivals unfairly, two of the three sources said.
retirement planning is a multistep process that evolves over time.
to have a comfortable, secure—and fun—retirement, you need to build the financial cushion that will fund it all.
planning for retirement starts with thinking about your retirement goals and how long you have to meet them.
worried about inflation, potential tapering, stagflation, speedy growth and strong earnings, and what all that might do to stocks?
calm down, says credit suisse's chief u. s.  equity strategist.
gm said it will report stronger than expected first-half earnings and will boost its investment in developing more evs and building battery plants.
the israeli military said it was "prepared for all scenarios" after it launched airstrikes on gaza in the early hours of june 16, breaking a ceasefire between israel and gaza militant groups.
the israel defense forces said airstrikes were targeting "hamas military complexes" after incendiary balloons were sent into israeli territory.
it was not immediately clear if there were any casualties from the attack in gaza.
the air raid marks the first hostility between israel and gaza militants since a ceasefire came into effect on may 21, ending an 11-day conflict that left 257 palestinians and 12 israelis dead.
tensions rose in the region after a controversial right-wing "flag march" went ahead in jerusalem on june 15.  israeli police said 17 palestinian protesters were arrested, while the palestinian red crescent said at least 33 palestinian protesters were injured in clashes in the city.
credit: israel defense forces via storyfulwhen 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the weather will stay warm and humid in the second half of the month, with daily temperatures ranging between 25 deg c and 34 deg c on most days.
this is much like the weather in the first half of june.
prevailing south-west monsoon conditions mean low-level winds are expected to blow from the south-east or south-west, the meteorological service singapore (mss) said on wednesday (june 16).
thundery showers have been forecast on some days during the second half of the month, although rainfall for the entire month should be below normal in parts of singapore.
most of these should be short and localised, in the late morning and early afternoon, due to strong daytime heating of the land areas.
one or two days, in particular, will see gusty winds with widespread thundery showers between the pre-dawn hours and morning.
the mss said that days with little or no rain will have a daily maximum temperature of around 35 deg c.  the rest of the days will have a maximum temperature of 34 deg c. warm and humid conditions can also be expected on some nights when prevailing winds from the south-east or south blow warm and humid air from the sea.
on these nights, minimum night-time temperatures of up to 28 deg c can be expected, particularly over the south-eastern parts of the island.
in the first half of june, thundery showers fell mostly over the western half of the island in the late morning and afternoon.
there were also a few days when thundery showers fell during the night and in the pre-dawn hours.
the highest total rainfall in the first half, at 93.
8mm, was recorded in mandai on tuesday, when heavy thundery showers fell mainly over the western and northern parts of the island in the afternoon.
nine of the 15 days saw temperature exceeding 34 deg c.  the hottest temperature was recorded at the marina barrage on june 4, at 35.
5 deg c. there were also a few warm nights, particularly over the southern parts of the island where the minimum night-time temperatures ranged between 28 deg c and 29.
2 deg c. rainfall was below average for most parts of singapore, except in the north-western parts of the island, in the first half of june.
choa chu kang had the highest rainfall anomaly of 138 per cent above average, while rainfall in sentosa was 61 per cent below average, the highest anomaly the other way round.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
eastern pacific shipping (eps) has joined a study with nanyang technological university, singapore (ntu singapore) to explore the use of ammonia as an alternative marine fuel.
the study will examine the development of the ammonia supply chain as well as the development of bunkering protocols.
it is hoped that the results will aid the maritime industry as it transitions to lower carbon fuels.
as a bunkering fuel, ammonia has a range of technical challenges.
for the new study, eps will be lending its expertise in the loading, transporting, and discharging of gas cargoes, including ammonia.
eps currently manages one of maritime's largest independent gas carrier fleets with ten mid- to large-size gas carriers.
the company has another twelve mid-, large-, and very large gas carrier newbuilds set to be delivered between 2022 and 2023. cyril ducau, ceo of eps, said: "as a leading tonnage provider, eps has a responsibility to use whatever means necessary to lower our emissions today.
simultaneously we are committed to sharing our findings, best practices, and technical expertise to develop better solutions for tomorrow.
our participation in the study with ntu singapore supports our holistic strategy of testing a full spectrum of alternative marine fuels, including ammonia.
we look forward to the results and sharing them with the industry.
"eps recently announced that it was entering a partnership that will fund a maritime decarbonisation centre in singapore.
the company also signed a memorandum of understanding with oci and man energy solutions to develop methanol and ammonia as marine fuels.
your email address will not be published.
required fields are marked *commentname * email * website   subscribe now for free daily news updates.
so that's why duterte got 91% approval lately in his final y. .
.
pilots play a major role in this achievement.
.
.
.
the article is partly right lng doesn't does not produce p. .
.
bet dollars to donuts that the government in manila is getti.
.
.
does home depot need to lease containers to fill the ship?.
.
.
will regulators take long-term action against record-breaking liners this year?total voters: 9safe bulkers acquires secondhand panamax https://t.
co/3evuvbke9iglobal ship lease brings in another four boxships https://t.
co/f5wilwdns7 https://t.
co/mctvnaezqjrt @czx9court: eastern pacific joins ammonia bunker study https://t.
co/ddatakojc9 via @splash_247us oil and gas lease sales set to resume after biden executive order blocked https://t.
co/rh0rqloj6i https://t.
co/ebm1ut7lc5rt @mercoglianos: japanese yards offer last available slots as china builds up its naval mighthttps://t.
co/jiii0ba7xhdon't have an account?
geneva (reuters) russian president vladimir putin said on wednesday that u. s.  president joe biden had phoned him to explain why he had called him "a killer" in march and that the explanation he had offered had satisfied putin.
putin was speaking at a news conference after a summit with biden in geneva.
biden in an abc news interview broadcast in march said "i do" when asked if he believed putin was a killer.
that prompted russia to recall its washington ambassador for consultations, and the u. s.  ambassador to moscow returned home for consultations later too.
biden and putin agreed to return their ambassadors at wednesday's summit.
"as regards those sharp declarations what can i say, we're all familiar with them," said putin, referring to biden's abc interview.
"president biden phoned me afterwards and we exchanged views on the subject.
these explanations suited me," said putin.
the russian leader went on to list what he said he regarded as numerous human rights violations by u. s.  authorities and accused the u. s.  military of being responsible for the murder of civilians in afghanistan and iraq.
"who takes responsibility for that?," said putin.
"who is the murderer?
"(reporting by vladimir soldatkin in geneva and by maria kiselyova in moscow; editing by andrew osborn)burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
while the country cheered last week over the news that some measures in phase two (heightened alert) would be eased from june 13, the beleaguered food and beverage (f&b) industry also perked up when the ministry of health (moh) said dining in for groups of five will be allowed to resume from next monday, as long as the covid-19 situation remained under control.
but with community infections spiking of late, they may now have to delay welcoming back dine-in customers.
in a video on facebook yesterday, finance minister lawrence wong, co-chair of the multi-ministry task force tackling the pandemic, said the government is "evaluating the timing and scope of the next stage of reopening" because of the "latest outbreak of cases".
dr paul tambyah, president of the asia-pacific society of clinical microbiology and infection, does not believe the current situation is dire enough to postpone lifting the restriction on dining in, especially with the country's vaccination numbers ticking up.
he said: "all these public health interventions are risk versus benefit calculations.
the economic and social impact of further restricting dining in is most likely going to far outweigh any possible benefit in reducing infections in a highly vaccinated society like ours.
"associate professor hsu li yang, vice-dean of global health at the saw swee hock school of public health at the national university of singapore (nus), said: "we will have to ease measures sooner or later.
"the food and beverage industry has been severely affected over the past year, and the impact is disproportionately higher on the smaller establishments and elderly hawkers that are less tech-savvy and who are less able to transit to online deliveries.
"a delay in reopening would be tough on restaurants, hawkers and other f&b outlets, and will also be a blow to members of the public who have been looking forward to eating out.
for dr hannah clapham, assistant professor at the saw swee hock school of public health at nus, vaccinations, transmissibility and timing are the keys to deciding whether to continue to ease measures.
"vaccination rates are rapidly increasing in the population, but we still have some way to go.
with the current delta variant being more transmissible, it is important to continue to keep a handle on the transmission until more people in the population are protected," she told the new paper yesterday.
from june 6 to 12, the number of community infections here averaged 4.
6 cases.
the average for linked and unlinked cases was 2.
6 and 2, respectively.
over the next four days, the average number of community infections grew to 15.
25, with an average of 12.
75 linked cases and 2.
5 unlinked cases.
and as of yesterday, there were 39 cases linked to the cluster at bukit merah view market and food centre.
referring to the spike in cases, dr leong hoe nam, an infectious diseases specialist at mount elizabeth novena hospital, said: "the number of unlinked cases is important.
in fact, it is the more important of the two (linked and unlinked cases).
it tells us when cases were not anticipated and where contact tracing failed.
"with unlinked cases, we risk the virus spreading uncontrollably.
"while it is "expected" and "normal" for covid-19 community cases to hit double digits, he added: "the number of unlinked cases should be below two and ideally none at all.
anything between three and five is worrying.
the virus spreads very fast.
"singapore moved to phase two (heightened alert) on may 16 after a spike in community cases, and it was slated to end on june 13 if the measures worked.
with the number of cases falling, the moh announced that the country would move to phase three (heightened alert) starting from june 14, with people allowed to gather in groups of five, up from two, and operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries going up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent, among other moves.
a further relaxation of measures, including dining in, was set to follow a week later.
professor dale fisher, an infectious diseases expert from the nus yong loo lin school of medicine, has consistently emphasised the importance of the rate of vaccination.
"economically, many hawkers, restaurant owners and workers have been suffering.
on the other hand, there is a high risk of covid-19 spreading as people mingle with masks off.
this is the argument to balance," prof fisher said.
"of course, if everyone in the country were to be vaccinated, we would be comfortable that anyone infected would usually have only a mild illness, if anything.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
beijing: vice premier liu he, china's economic czar, has been tapped to spearhead the development of so-called third-generation chip production and lead the formulation of policy support for the technology, bloomberg news reported on thursday (jun 17), citing sources.
liu is also overseeing projects that could lead to breakthroughs in traditional chipmaking, bloomberg said, citing one of the sources whom it did not name.
liu, a confidante of president xi jinping, already holds a huge portfolio ranging from economics to finance.
he has also been the chief negotiator in sino-us trade talks since the days of former us president donald trump.
about us$1 trillion of government funding has been set aside under the technology initiative, part of which will be used by central and local governments to jointly invest in a series of third-generation chip projects, bloomberg reported.
china's state council and ministry of industry and information technology did not immediately respond to faxed requests for comment.
earlier this month, the us senate approved a sweeping package of legislation intended to boost the country's ability to compete with chinese technology, drawing indignation from china, which objected to being cast as an "imaginary" us enemy.
the measure authorises about us$190 billion for provisions to strengthen us technology and research and would separately approve spending us$54 billion to increase us production and research into semiconductors and telecommunications equipment, including us$2 billion dedicated to chips used by automakers that have seen massive shortages and caused significant production cuts.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                singapore (the straits times/ann):- singapore's non-oil domestic exports (nodx) grew at a faster rate last month compared with april, aided by electronic and non-electronic shipments such as machinery and chemicals.
nodx rose 8.
8 per cent last month, following a 6 per cent gain in april, continuing the positive growth trend seen since december last year, according to data released by government agency enterprise singapore (esg) on thursday (june 17).
but last month's export growth was less than the 16 per cent growth forecast by analysts polled by bloomberg.
on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, nodx decreased 0.
1 per cent in may, after the previous month's 8.
8 per cent decline.
exports of electronic products rose 11 per cent year on year last month, higher than the 10.
9 per cent growth achieved in april.
shipments of diodes and transistors jumped 53.
9 per cent and telecommunications equipment saw a 52.
3 per cent rise, contributing the most to the growth in electronic nodx.
non-electronic product exports grew 8.
1 per cent from the same month last year.
in april, they were up 4.
7 per cent.
primary chemicals led the non-electronics growth, rising 96.
8 per cent, specialised machinery was up 58 per cent and petrochemicals rose 55.
7 per cent.
prakash sakpal, senior economist for asia at ing bank in singapore, said that while nodx growth picked up pace from april, it was still disappointing as it came well below consensus forecasts and his own estimate of 19.
9 per cent.
"the low base effect held year-on-year growth in positive territory.
however, the second consecutive month-on-month fall reflects a possible pause in the export-led recovery as the covid-19 second wave struck the economy via tighter restrictions on activity, " he told the straits times.
shipments to singapore's top markets as a whole rose last month.
however, nodx to the united states, japan and the european union declined.
the markets that contributed the most to the rise in nodx were china, up 36.
9 per cent, hong kong, 30.
2 per cent, and malaysia, 27.
1 per cent.
shipments to china still grew at a slower pace than the 55.
5 per cent they saw in april.
export growth also eased for malaysia, from 57.
2 per cent in april.
nodx to emerging markets grew by 41.
4 per cent last month, following the 70.
4 per cent expansion in april.
total trade, on a year-on-year basis, expanded by 30.
9 per cent last month extending a 26.
3 per cent growth in april.
total exports rose by 29.
8 per cent, following april's 26.
6 per cent growth.
total imports grew by 32.
2 per cent, after a 25.
9 per cent increase in april.
last month, official forecasts for singapore's key exports and overall merchandise trade were raised, amid better-than-expected growth seen in the first quarter of this year.
nodx is expected to expand between 1 per cent and 3 per cent for this year, up from 0 per cent to 2 per cent.
total trade is predicted to increase 5 per cent to 7 per cent, higher than the 2 per cent to 4 per cent forecast in february.
nodx rose 9.
7 per cent year on year in the first quarter, driven by increases in both electronics and non-electronics shipments and reversing the 0.
5 per cent decline seen the previous quarter, according to data released by esg on may 25.  the straits times/asia news network
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                exports
                                                                ,
                                                                                                may
                                                                ,
                                                                                                non-oil



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
seoul (the korea herald/asia news network) k-pop girl group blackpink are celebrating the fifth anniversary of their debut with a movie that will hit cinemas in over 100 countries, their label yg entertainment said on wednesday (june 16).
titled blackpink the movie, it will premiere on aug 8, although release dates may differ in some countries.
the film will show the quartet reminiscing over shared memories and include never-before-seen interviews with the bandmates.
there will also be performances from their january online concert the show, as well as the 2018 concert in your area, for fans to relive the moments.
the movie is part of the "4+1 project" which the band announced earlier in the week.
yg said on tuesday that blackpink are preparing a "big project" to mark their fifth anniversary, as the company uploaded a poster that read "4+1 project" without providing further details.
it added that the contents will be unveiled gradually through a website dedicated for the event, with several projects aimed to meet the fans' expectations.
blackpink, which comprise jisoo, jennie, rose and lisa, presented a frozen version of their hit song, how you like that, on their fourth anniversary last year.
the quartet debuted in august 2016 with the ep, square one, which included the songs whistle and boombayah.
the music video of boombayah recently surpassed 1.
2 billion views on youtube, becoming the band's third to reach the milestone, following ddu-du ddu-du and kill this love.
blackpink's first full-length studio album, released last october, ranked no.
2 on both the billboard 200 and britain's official chart, the highest ever for a k-pop female act.
the group have also collaborated with global pop stars such as lady gaga, dua lipa and selena gomez.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jiuquan, china (reuters, afp, xinhua) china launched a spacecraft on thursday (june 17) carrying three astronauts to part of a space station still under construction, a landmark step in establishing beijing as a major space power.
a long-march 2f rocket transporting the shenzhou-12, or divine vessel, bound for the space station module tianhe blasted off at 9.
22am beijing time from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in north-western gansu province.
after about 10 minutes, it reached orbit and the space craft separated from the rocket, to loud applause in the control room among rows of blue-suited engineers.
state broadcaster cctv showed a live feed from inside the spacecraft, with the three astronauts lifting their helmet visors and one smiling and waving at the camera.
another floated a pen just off his lap in zero gravity as he browsed the flight manual.
shenzhou-12 is the third of 11 missions – four of which will be crewed – needed to complete china's first full-fledged space station.
construction began in april with the launch of tianhe, the first and largest of three modules.
the astronauts nie haisheng, 56, liu boming, 54, and tang hongbo, 45, are to work and stay on tianhe, the living quarters of the future space station, for three months the longest stay in low earth orbit by any chinese national.
during their sojourn on the cylinder-like tianhe, slightly bigger than a city bus, the three men will test the module's technologies, including its life-support system.
the men will also be monitored for how they fare in space physically and psychologically for an extended period of time.
an upcoming mission to the space station will last six months.
"this will be the first crewed flight in the space station (construction) phase, and i'm lucky to be able to have the 'first baton'," mr nie told reporters in jiuquan a day before the launch.
the veteran astronaut has been hailed by his team as a bastion of stability and a teacher figure who constantly challenges others with tough questions.
"as long as we have him in our hearts, we have nothing to fear," fellow astronaut wang yaping, who is part of the shenzhou-12 backup team, told state media previously.
"in our crew, elder brother nie is like the needle that stills the sea," she said.
like mr nie, mr liu was from the first batch of astronauts selected in the 1990s for china's space programme.
known for his intellect, mr liu is often addressed by his colleagues as "little zhuge", the renowned military strategist who lived in china two millennia ago.
on the shenzhou-7 mission in 2008, mr liu famously used a crowbar to prise open the hatch after it refused to open.
mr tang, a former air force pilot, 45, was from a later batch of astronauts, and trained for more than a decade before being selected for his first spaceflight on shenzhou-12.
"i've waited for 11 years, and finally i'm ready, and i can contribute my strength," mr tang told reporters on wednesday.
their shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the tianhe main section of the space station, which was placed in orbit on april 29. the module has separate living spaces for each of them, a treadmill for exercise, and a communication centre for e-mails and video calls with ground control.
it is china's first crewed mission in nearly five years.
the launch represents a matter of huge prestige in china, as beijing prepares to mark the 100th anniversary of the ruling communist party on july 1 with a massive propaganda campaign.
to prepare for the mission, the crew has undergone more than 6,000 hours of training, including hundreds of underwater somersaults in full space gear.
the first crew will test and maintain the systems on board, conduct spacewalks and undertake scientific experiments.
china's space ambitions have been fuelled in part by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station (iss), a collaboration between the united states, russia, canada, europe and japan.
it is due for retirement after 2024, even though nasa said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong will be much smaller than the iss, and is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
since 2003, china has launched six crewed missions and sent 11 astronauts into space, including mr zhai zhigang, who carried out china's first space walk ever on the 2008 shenzhou mission.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
japan's parliament ended its session without passing a promised law on lgbtq understanding, failing to fulfill a ruling party pledge just as the country is set to host what is meant to be a "diversity" olympics.
a bill under which discrimination against lgbtq individuals would be deemed unacceptable was dropped by prime minister yoshihide suga's ruling party and officially died wednesday when the current parliament session ended.
on top of this, members of his liberal democratic party were reported as making discriminatory remarks against sexual minorities during the discussion process, sparking protests outside the party's tokyo headquarters.
the ruling party's failure to act strikes a sour note five weeks ahead of the opening ceremony for an olympics that organizers said would be based around the concept of "unity in diversity. "
missing this opportunity could see the issue kicked down the road, potentially making japan less attractive to the skilled foreign workers the aging country needs.
"the olympic charter clearly bans discrimination," said gon matsunaka, head of pride house tokyo, a group that promotes lgbtq understanding.
"this is a breach of the contract with the international olympic committee.
"japan lags its peers in the group of seven countries in several areas of civil rights protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning and/or queer people.
the ldp had pledged in the 2019 upper house election to swiftly pass a bill promoting "correct understanding" of lgbtq issues but the asahi newspaper and other media have said conservative elements in the party have blocked progress.
"since japan is such a significant participant in the international business world, it is likely to become increasingly awkward for japanese companies as well as the country's political leadership if the country remains an outlier when lgbtq equality has become more and more quotidian in that world," said jennifer pizer, the law and policy director at lambda legal, which says it is the oldest and largest u. s.  civil rights group for lgbtq people and those living with hiv.
lgbtq issues caused controversy at the sochi winter olympics in russia in 2014, which took place in the shadow of the country introducing anti-gay legislation.
former u. s.  president barack obama and some other world leaders stayed away from the opening ceremony after the introduction of the law.
while japan cannot be compared to russia, where lgbtq people are sometimes violently persecuted, "the sochi example of public attention could serve as a helpful wake-up call for japan's leadership," said pizer.
"the international spotlight will only grow brighter as the start of the games approaches.
"asked about the fate of bill on lgbtq discrimination, suga told parliament earlier this month he would work to fulfill promises to the public.
he also agreed to a g-7 statement at the weekend pledging to tackle discrimination against lgbtqi+ populations.
the tokyo 2020 website says diversity and inclusion are essential to a successful games, and inclusion will see people accepted and respected regardless of gender and sexual orientation, among other factors.
nonetheless, the head of the organizing committee was forced to step down in february after making disparaging comments about women.
yoshiro mori, a former prime minister, was replaced as tokyo 2020 chief by seiko hashimoto, a female minister and former olympic athlete.
unease over the lgbt law may stem from concern it could lead to recognition of same-sex marriage, matsunaka said.
a survey published by the asahi newspaper in march found that 65% of respondents said same-sex marriage should be recognized, compared with 41% in a similar survey in 2015.  a majority of all age groups supported the change, apart from the over-70s, the paper said.
japan moved a little closer to allowing such unions when a court on the northern island of hokkaido in march ruled the lack of legal recognition for same-sex marriage violates the constitution.
it was the first such judgment in favor of marriage equality but it fell short of making it legal.
public outrage over sexist comments forces changes at tokyo 2020"men in their 50s, 60s and 70s tend to be against same-sex marriage, and that is the gender and age of ldp lawmakers," said matsunaka.
"rather than reflecting the whole of japanese society, the opinions of one group are preventing a change in the law.
that shouldn't be allowed. "
southeast asiawarning: this article contains spoilers for loki: episode 2!
be sure to check out ign's review for episode 2!the first two episodes of loki have certainly been eventful.
they've introduced the multiverse-busting time variance authority, established a brand new status quo for this loki variant and even debuted a second version of loki played by sophia di martino.
but is di martino actually playing a female version of loki, or could she be a different marvel villain entirely?
the answer isn't as clear cut as you might think.
read on to learn why many fans are beginning to speculate this character is actually the enchantress.
eagle-eyed marvel fans have spotted evidence di martino's character may actually be the enchantress.
whereas this character is generally listed as "the variant" in the end credits, the castilian spanish dub instead lists the role as "sylvie. "
that also happens to be the first name of the second marvel character to call herself enchantress, sylvie lushton.
lending further fuel to that fire, imdb lists the walking dead actress cailey fleming as playing "young sylvie" in episode 4.  this all suggests di martino's character isn't simply loki under a different form, but a unique person with her own identity separate from that of loki laufeyson.
there's also the fact that enchantress is a character known for wearing green costumes with blond hair, which clearly sums up lady loki's fashion sense.
none of this is to say that di martino isn't still playing a female version of loki.
if anything, this character is most likely inspired by the lady loki of the comics with elements of the sylvie lushton version of enchantress thrown in for good measure.
the blond hair may be a telltale sign of that blending.
this wouldn't be the first time marvel studios has borrowed aspects of the enchantress without including the character outright.
in the comics, amora is rarely seen without her faithful protector, skurge the executioner, by her side.
just as amora pines after thor, skurge harbors an unrequited love for her.
but in thor: ragnarok, skurge is reimagined as a reluctant bodyguard to hela (a character who herself is altered to become thor and loki's sister).
in short, the mcu has a habit of streamlining and tweaking the familiar thor mythos.
it's also worth pointing out that marvel already introduced an enchantress-like character in the first season of agents of shield.
elena satine plays lorelei, an asgardian character with similar powers of enchantment.
in the comics, lorelei is actually amora's sister, though that family connection isn't referenced in the show.
plus, there's the whole issue of whether agents of shield is still considered to be part of the mcu canon.
.
.
based on the events of loki episode 2, we're meant to assume di martino is playing a version of loki from an alternate timeline, or potentially a future version of tom hiddleston's loki.
it's entirely possible this loki has a different backstory.
perhaps she was cast out of asgard and forced to live among humans, hence her taking up the sylvie lushton name.
episode 4's young sylvie sequence may show us that tragic story.
that life among humans might have profoundly affected her outlook on the universe and inspired what is clearly contempt for her male counterpart.
it's worth remembering that even if di martino turns out to be playing a hybrid lady loki/enchantress character, none of this necessarily prevents marvel studios from introducing a more traditional version of enchantress in a future thor movie.
amora could still be biding her time before emerging to cast a spell over asgard.
for more, check out the loki release schedule, dig in on how loki evolved from marvel villain to agent of chaos in the comics, and check out some kang the conqueror theories.
jesse is a mild-mannered staff writer for ign.
allow him to lend a machete to your intellectual thicket by following @jschedeen on twitter.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 14 confirmed cases of the coronavirus as at tuesday noon (june 15), taking singapore's total to 62,315, said the ministry of health (moh).
all were locally transmitted within the community.
five of the community cases are unlinked and nine are linked to previous cases.
of the linked cases, five had already been placed under quarantine, while the other four were detected through surveillance.
for the first time since june 29, 2020, there were no imported cases reported.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories either.
as at monday night, 138 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 235 are recuperating in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
more details will be announced on tuesday night.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
the nhs pointed out the main symptoms of coronavirus: a high temperature, a new, continuous cough, and a loss or change to your sense of smell or taste.
however, professor tim spector says otherwise.
as coronavirus has mutated, these "classic" signs of infection are less common.
according to data collected from the covid symptom study – a not-for-profit collaboration between health science company zoe and researchers at king's college london – other signs of infection are more likely.
"since the start of may, we have been looking at the top symptoms in the app users – and they are not the same as they were," said professor spector.
as the delta variant accounts for 90 percent of covid cases in the uk, the loss of smell is no longer in the top 10 list of reported symptoms.
instead, sore throat, headache, and runny nose are now much more common – and happen to be signs of hay fever too.
symptoms of hay fever include:read more: british scientists invent covid alarm that can detect virus in 15 mins  "this variant seems to be working slightly differently," spector said.
the professor compared the most common symptoms to a "seasonal cold", which may make people dismiss it completely.
younger people are likely to experience "milder symptoms", which may "feel like a bad cold or some funny 'off' feeling".
if you're feeling a little under the weather, or slightly off, professor spector urges you to take a test.
don't missno prime minister!
boris must not abandon freedom day john longworth [comment]almost third of 42 britons who have died from delta variant had 2 jabs [analysis]lockdown poll: boris set to delay lifting restrictions do you agree?
[poll]if you're showing symptoms of covid, the nhs advise you to self-isolate and to take a more accurate pcr test that is sent off to a laboratory.
the react study – put together by imperial college london – found additional symptoms linked to covid, such as:the centres for disease control and prevention (cdc) have a wider array of covid symptoms to be aware of.
other possible symptoms of covid include:  the cdc stated it would "continue to update this list" as more is learned about the disease.
people without covid symptoms are encouraged to test weekly using a rapid flow test.
these free nhs tests are available to order – from online or the pharmacy – to your home.
the rapid flow test reveals if you've tested positive for covid within half an hour.
the nhs encourage weekly rapid flow testing because "one in three people with covid do not have symptoms".
being symptomless still means you can pass on the infection to others who may show signs of infection.
the number of people falling severely ill because of covid in the uk is decreasing as the number of vaccinations skyrocket.
the number of deaths within 28 days of a positive covid test has nosedived by 12.
5 percent in the past seven days.
this is encouraging news, showing that vaccinations can weaken the link between the number of covid infections and deaths.
see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
more than a year into the pandemic, some people in singapore still refuse to abide by covid-19 rules.
on monday (june 14) night, a woman made a scene aboard bus service 69 in bedok as she refused to wear a face mask.
a passenger told shin min daily news that there were about 20 people on the bus at the time.
"i believe that the bus captain didn't notice that she wasn't wearing a mask when she boarded the bus.
"after he alerted him, the bus captain approached the woman to remind her to put a mask on, but she got into an argument with him.
he then called for help from his colleagues at the bedok bus interchange.
according to the chinese daily, a video clip showed the woman taunting the bus captain's colleague, spewing expletives and saying: "call 999, make a police report".
[[nid:502160]]the incident on the bus lasted about 15 minutes, causing many passengers to alight because their journeys were delayed.
moments later, the woman left and the bus captain continued to ply the route.
this is the latest in a string of incidents where passengers got aggressive when they were asked to wear masks on public buses.
several of them threatened and even assaulted bus captains.
since last april, it is a must for commuters to wear a mask when taking public transport and those without one will be denied entry, the land transport authority said.
in may, a 39-year-old man was arrested for causing public nuisance and flouting safe distancing measures as he refused to wear a mask and tried to convince another passenger to take his mask off in a viral video.
also read: 'it's my life': passenger refuses to wear mask, quarrels with bus captainlamminlee@asiaone.
com
macau said wednesday it was closing its representative office in taiwan, following neighbouring hong kong which made the same move last month in protest at taipei's support for pro-democracy activists.
hong kong and macau are "semi-autonomous" chinese cities, although foreign policy is all but decided by beijing and the central government has taken an increasingly more direct say in how both former colonies are run in recent years.
in a short statement, macau announced its economic and cultural delegation in taiwan will temporarily suspend operations from june 19. in response, taiwan's mainland affairs council expressed "deep regret over the macau government's unilateral decision," saying it would continue to keep its trade office in the chinese gambling enclave open.
macau gave no reason for the closure.
but the wording was almost identical to last month's statement by hong kong.
that announcement was then followed by hong kong's government confirming the closure was indeed political.
taiwan, hong kong said, had "grossly interfered" in the city's affairs on repeated occasions and "created irretrievable damage" to relations.
hong kong and macau abide by authoritarian china's view that democratic, self-ruled taiwan is part of its territory and must be seized one day, by force if necessary.
that makes any official contact with taipei tricky, even though taiwan is a major trading partner.
china had encouraged trade offices when relations were warmer.
but since the 2016 election of taiwan's president tsai ing-wen, beijing cut official contacts and ramped up economic, military and diplomatic pressure.
beijing loathes tsai because she regards taiwan as a de facto sovereign nation and not part of "one china".
her government is also a vocal supporter of democratic principles and has quietly helped open its doors to some hong kongers trying to escape beijing's crackdown on dissent after huge democracy protests rocked the financial hub in 2019. jta/qanaustralia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing neitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oa former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
hong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
clement yongthe straits timesjune 14, 2021the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday (june 13) that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said: "the police have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law.
"get a copy of the straits times or go to straitstimes.
com for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
hong kong: a spiked drink, a puff of dust, missing memories, and an empty bank account.
hong kong's entertainment district wanchai has been battered by a coronavirus driven collapse in tourism and as times get desperate, several men have seen their night out turn into a nightmare.
it took days for stuart to recall a crucial memory.
but after speaking with another victim, it suddenly came flooding back.
a woman trying to spark a conversation outside a bar, and then a man approaching with a determined look in his eye.
"i thought he was going to punch me but he just blew something in my face," he recalled.
"i laughed.
but that was it.
no memories after that.
"it was a breakthrough for stuart who, like the other victims interviewed for this piece, asked to use a pseudonym.
he had been trying to figure out why post-match drinks with his cricket buddies in wanchai, a popular hangout for white-collar foreign workers, had turned into one big blackout following his encounter outside the bar.
hours were missing alongside hk$80,000 (us$10,300) taken in six separate transactions from nearby atms.
"it was a joint account with my missus and we have a baby on the way," the 36-year-old brit, who moved to hong kong 18 months ago, told afp.
"police said maybe i was just drunk, but why would i empty that account?
it wouldn't be worth my life doing that.
"opportunistic crimewhatsapp groups used by wanchai bar owners and regulars have lit up in recent months with similar stories.
most targets have no memory and awake to find accounts emptied by scammers who have drugged their unwitting victims largely by tampering with their drinks to keep them pliable and obtain their pin numbers.
victims have dubbed the scam "devil's breath" attacks technically the nickname for the powerful anti-nausea drug scopolamine but in this case used more as a catch-all descriptor.
spiked drinks have previously posed a small risk in hong kong, a largely safe city, but the pandemic has exacerbated the issue.
"it's become a huge problem," one bar owner, who declined to be named, told afp, saying multiple regulars had become victims.
"the police are up and down here all night, checking our licenses, making sure we abide by pandemic restrictions.
but this seems to be something they just don't, or won't, tackle," he added.
the jump in cases tracks with a general rise in opportunistic crime as hong kong experiences its worst recession in decades.
crime figures from last year showed a 26 per cent increase in robberies, a 237 per cent jump in blackmail and an 89 per cent rise in deception.
the latter two categories include phone and online scams, which have filled local media in recent months.
cybercrime was up 55 per cent last year.
in a series of pandemic themed reports the global initiative against transnational organized crime detailed how the coronavirus has transformed crime trends.
widespread lockdowns and travel restrictions, for example, have made break-ins and international drug smuggling harder but the pandemic has been a boon for human trafficking, extortion, counterfeiting and cybercrime.
police and bar owners in hong kong say the vast majority of robberies are carried out by teams of sex workers, an already vulnerable group, sometimes with the help of male accomplices.
"we've all struggled during the pandemic and that includes the girls," another wanchai bar owner said.
"that doesn't excuse the crime, but it helps explain why.
"'psychological damage'three people interviewed by afp, including stuart, reported the robberies but said it was a struggle to get officers to treat them as victims.
"when i reported it, the officer sighed and said he already had some 90 case files on his desk," recalled james, a 41-year-old british school teacher who had hk$64,000 lifted from his account.
"i was like 'well now you have 91 cases mate'.
"all three said they struggled to get crucial data from their bank hsbc to give to police.
hsbc did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
police said such crimes had risen during the pandemic and that the force had ramped up operations, including deploying intelligence teams and specialist anti-triad officers.
"i think you can rest assured that we are putting a lot of resources now to fight these kinds of crimes," acting assistant district commander glenn ho siu-tung told afp.
he conceded there may be room for improvement on how police treat victims.
"i think we will have to spend some time educating uniformed officers," ho said, adding drinkers need to remain vigilant and not leave out any details when reporting crimes.
victims, meanwhile, say the trauma of what they experienced is worse than the lost money.
"it's the psychological damage it does to you," said stuart.
"you just can't fathom how you could be so compliant".
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    wednesday, 16 jun 2021
                	
caption
this screengrab of a video released by the royal thai government on june 16, 2021 shows thailand's prime minister prayut chan-o-cha in bangkok making an announcement on plans to reopen thailand.
afpbangkok (bloomberg): thailand plans to fully reopen to foreign visitors in 120 days and give at least one dose of vaccine to the majority of residents by oct 1 to revive the tourism-reliant nation's economy, prime minister prayut chan-o-cha said.
some tourist destinations should be ready for fully vaccinated visitors without any quarantine requirement sooner than the wider reopening, with phuket as the "pilot, " prayut said in prepared comments for a national address on wednesday (june 16).
the country aims to vaccinate 10 million people a month from july and has ordered 105.
5 million doses of vaccines, more than the country needs, he said.
"the time has now come for us to look ahead and set a date for when we can fully open our country and start receiving visitors because re-opening the country is one of the important ways to start reducing the enormous suffering of people who have lost their ability to earn an income, " prayut said.
i am, therefore, setting a goal for us to be able to declare thailand fully open within 120 days from today, and for tourism centres that are ready, to do so even faster.
"other highlights of prayut's address:> places of work and business must be able to operate normally and without blanket restrictions> domestic travel must be without blanket restrictions> only exception to these guidelines will be if a truly serious situation develops or seems likely to develop> orders for provincial governors to make preparations for reopening and accelerate vaccinations> to get to the target of opening the country in 120 days, government will pilot with phuket to relax some restrictions and receive visitors using a "sandbox" model> thais traveling abroad who are fully vaccinated must also be able to return home without confinement in quarantineprayut said the decision to set a deadline for reopening is fraught with "some risks, " and "when we open the country, there will be an increase in infections, no matter how good our precautions.
""but, i think, when we take into consideration the economic needs of people, the time has now come for us to take that calculated risk.
"the government wants to revive the tourism sector that, pre-pandemic, contributed about one-fifth of the economic output.
the past year of travel restrictions decimated jobs and businesses, and thailand's gross domestic product has contracted for five straight quarters, a trend that's likely to continue in the april-june period given the raging outbreak.
tags / keywords:
thailand
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                reopen
                                                                ,
                                                                                                prayut



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
bangkok: thailand plans to reopen its borders to international tourists in 120 days, prime minister prayut chan-o-cha announced in a televised speech on wednesday (jun 16).
"now, it is time for us to look further into the future at reopening the country to welcome tourists back into thailand again.
this is a crucial means to ease hardship faced by people who have not been able to make a living for a long time," gen prayut said.
"today, i would like to inform you that i plan for thailand to reopen within 120 days from this day on.
"the target set by the thai prime minister would put the country's reopening sometime in the middle of october.
the prime minister also called on key tourist destinations to reopen sooner if they are ready, adding that travellers who have been vaccinated against covid-19 should be exempt from quarantine.
"tourists who have completed their vaccination should be able to travel to thailand without any quarantine or restrictions that would cause inconvenience.
"as for thais who travel overseas, if they have completed their vaccination already, they should be able to return to their country without any quarantine as well," gen prayut said.
in his televised speech, the prime minister also said thailand is coordinating with six vaccine producers pfizer, moderna, astrazeneca, sinovac and sinopharm, and that it has secured 105.
5 million doses of covid-19 vaccines.
"all of them will start to get delivered within this year," he added.
according to gen prayut, more than 10 million doses are expected to be administered monthly "if there are enough vaccines delivered each month".
by early october, he said, at least 50 million people in thailand should already have received their first dose of a vaccine.
meanwhile, the thai government will continue to procure more vaccines for next year, gen prayut added.
"i know fully well that my decision today comes with a risk because once we reopen our country, no matter how well we have prepared, it is possible to have more infections," he said.
"however, after assessing the situation and bringing into consideration our people's survival and livelihoods, it is time for us to take the risk together.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
national university of singapore and nanyang technological university set up sg$23 million ($17.
39 million) research fund to develop cooling technologies for data centres operating in tropical locations, with a testbed facility slated to be ready this october.
by
                                
eileen yu

            
                    
                    for by the way
        
        
                                                        
                                                    |                june 16, 2021 -- 06:09 gmt (23:09 pdt)
            
                                        | topic: data centers
two singapore universities have set up a sg$23 million ($17.
39 million) research fund to develop sustainable cooling technologies for data centres operating in tropical locations.
the initiative will include a testbed facility that is slated to be up and running this october.
jointly led by national university of singapore (nus) and nanyang technological university (ntu), the programme is funded by singapore's national research foundation (nrf) as well as facebook.
five other industry players also are participating in the initiative including keppel data centres, ascenix, and red dot analytics.
key government agencies in singapore also would provide feedback on the research conducted.
the testbed would provide a platform for researchers and industry players to collaborate, the universities said in a statement wednesday.
energy-efficient cooling technologies would be developed and demonstrated at the facility, they added.
singapore puts budget focus on transformation, innovation
                    
after tilting last year's budget towards 'emergency support' in light of the global pandemic, singapore's government will spend sg$24 billion ($18.
1 billion) over the next three years to help local businesses innovate and build capabilities needed to take them through the next phase of transformation.
read more
they noted the need to do so as increasing digitalisation continued to drive demand for data centres, which currently were air-cooled at temperatures between 23 degrees and 27 degrees.
these facilities also required ambient humidity to be maintained between 50% and 60%.
doing so in tropical climates such as singapore's consumed more power, which drove up costs and carbon emissions.
with singapore home to 60% of data centres in southeast asia, almost 7% of the country's total energy requirements went towards powering these facilities.
this number was expected to hit 12% by 2030.  pointing to these stats, the universities underscored the need to cut power consumption and carbon footprint by "packing more computing power within the same floor area".
better solutions to sustain the cooling demands of data centres also needed to be developed.
to be located at nus' kent ridge campus, the "full-scale" testbed datacentre facility would be equipped with equipment such as a desiccant-coated heat exchanger design and statepoint liquid cooling system (splc).
developed by nortek air solutions alongside facebook, the splc was touted to enable data centres to operate more efficiently in tropical locations.
chip-based hybrid cooling technologies also would be adopted to cool servers, while artificial intelligence (ai) would be tapped to manage operations.
collectively, these aimed to enhance the efficiencies of water and power consumption in data centre equipment in the long run.
the testbed also would allow potential operational risks of conceptual technologies to be identified, the universities said, adding that four technologies currently were under research at the sustainable tropical data centre testbed.
these included raising air-cooling temperatures and relative humidity levels while maintaining the performance and resilience of datacentre equipment.
another research project would assess a heat sink design that integrated both air and liquid cooling technologies in a single chip, eliminating the need for connectors and ducts.
this aimed to evaluate alternative air-cooling solutions during water-loop maintenance, so server downtime could be reduced.
the testbed also would look at cooling technologies that were digitalised to allow real-time monitoring and ai-based optimisation.
when deployed successfully, these capabilities could potentially cut energy consumption and slash greenhouse gas emissions by up to 25%, compared to datacentre deployments that were traditionally air-cooled.
if adopted across all tropical markets, they could slash energy consumption within the data centre industry by at least 40%.
the testbed also would look to provide operating guidelines and establish new standards, based on its research findings, for sustainable datacentre operations.
nrf ceo low teck seng said: "data centres are the backbone of the digital economy and they require constant cooling for optimal operations.
the new [testbed] will accelerate the development and testbedding of innovative and sustainable solutions for data centres, towards commercial deployment. "
by
                                
eileen yu

            
                    
                    for by the way
        
        
                                                        
                                                    |                june 16, 2021 -- 06:09 gmt (23:09 pdt)
            
                                        | topic: data centers
securitymost firms face second ransomware attack after paying off firste-commercesingapore e-commerce aggregator eyes interoperability across apac marketplacesinnovationsingapore researchers tap human body as medium to power wearablessecurityhuawei reveals 'cybersecurity framework' with launch of china transparency centreplease review our terms of service to complete your newsletter subscription.
by registering, you agree to the terms of use and acknowledge the data practices outlined in the privacy policy.
you will also receive a complimentary subscription to the zdnet's tech update today and zdnet announcement newsletters.
you may unsubscribe from these newsletters at any time.
you agree to receive updates, alerts, and promotions from the cbs family of companies including zdnet's tech update today and zdnet announcement newsletters.
you may unsubscribe at any time.
by signing up, you agree to receive the selected newsletter(s) which you may unsubscribe from at any time.
you also agree to the terms of use and acknowledge the data collection and usage practices outlined in our privacy policy.
equinix, gic invest another $3.
9b in data centers for cloud service providers

									
																																																														equinix
																																																								and
																																																								singapore's
																																																								sovereign
																																																								wealth
																																																								fund
																																																								have
																																																								now
																																																								jointly
																																																								invested
																																																								more
																																																								than
																																																								$6.
9
																																																								billion
																																																								to
																																																								support
																																																								the
																																																								xscale
																																																								data
																																																								center
																																																								portfolio
																																																								for
																																																								hyperscale
																																																								companies.
.
.
.
hybrid cloud, on-premises workloads get their day in the sun, but forecast still cloudy

									
																																																														are
																																																								companies
																																																								really
																																																								going
																																																								to
																																																								repatriate
																																																								their
																																																								cloud
																																																								workloads?
probably
																																																								not.
but
																																																								it's
																																																								clear
																																																								enterprises
																																																								are
																																																								rethinking
																																																								what
																																																								workloads
																																																								they
																																																								keep
																																																								on-premises.
edge
																																																								computing,
																																																																																																																																																																																														.
.
.
best hyperconverged infrastructure systems vendors 2021

									
																																																														most
																																																								cloud
																																																								services
																																																								now
																																																								are
																																																								running
																																																								in
																																																								hyperconverged
																																																								data
																																																								center
																																																								appliances,
																																																								mainly
																																																								because
																																																								they
																																																								are
																																																								more
																																																								than
																																																								fast
																																																								enough
																																																								to
																																																								satisfy
																																																								overwhelming
																																																								24/7
																																																								demand
																																																								by
																																																								billions
																																																								of
																																																								users.
.
.
.
qrypt's cloud service will distribute entropy for better cryptography

									
																			the service is a digital alternative to quantum key distribution.
canberra certifies three data centre providers to store sensitive government data

									
																																																														australian
																																																								data
																																																								centres,
																																																								canberra
																																																								data
																																																								centres,
																																																								and
																																																								macquarie
																																																								telecom
																																																								given
																																																								the
																																																								nod
																																																								by
																																																								the
																																																								digital
																																																								transformation
																																																								agency
																																																								to
																																																								store
																																																								sensitive
																																																								government
																																																								data.
.
.
.
snowflake announces new data marketplace and 'powered' collaborations

									
																			the data cloud company unveiled a slate of new products, services, and integrations for multiple industries.
tough new safety laws for gig economy platforms and riders to be introduced in nsw

									
																			the nsw government is cracking down on making sure companies are protecting food delivery riders and riders are riding safely.
broadcom ups fiscal q3 outlook based on strong demand for processors

									
																			broadcom's semiconductors are used in data centers, networking gear, broadband and wireless devices as well as industrial.
tencent cloud adds three asian data centres, one in frankfurt

									
																																																														chinese
																																																								tech
																																																								giant
																																																								adds
																																																								new
																																																								data
																																																								centres
																																																								in
																																																								bangkok,
																																																								hong
																																																								kong,
																																																								tokyo,
																																																								and
																																																								frankfurt,
																																																								pushing
																																																								its
																																																								global
																																																								cloud
																																																								coverage
																																																								to
																																																								27
																																																								regions
																																																								and
																																																								66
																																																								availability
																																																								zones.
.
.
.
© 2021 zdnet, a red ventures company.
all rights reserved.
privacy policy |
                    cookie settings |
                    advertise |
                    terms of use
singapore: a store assistant was injured after a glass panel at a bobbi brown outlet in ion orchard shattered on the first day of the mall's reopening on wednesday (jun 16).
ion orchard wasclosed for four days from jun 12as a precautionary measure after several covid-19 cases were linked to the mall.
the mall said in a statement on wednesday that the incident happened at about 11am at the bobbi brown store.
a single glass panel shattered when the shop was being opened for the day by the store assistant, said ion orchard in response to questions from cna.
the worker suffered some cuts and was given first aid by an ion orchard officer.
the individual was subsequently taken to the singapore general hospital, the singapore civil defence force told cna.
"we are in touch with the bobbi brown management and understand that the staff is recovering at home.
we will render additional support to them as necessary," said ion orchard.
entire mall "thoroughly cleaned"the mall was reopened on wednesday with approval from the ministry of health (moh), said ion orchard in a separate statement on wednesday.
ion sky will also be reopened to visitors, with enhanced safe management measures in place, it added.
the entire mall and its stores were "thoroughly cleaned and disinfected" in line with guidelines from the authorities during the closure.
all staff and tenants including contractors and vendors who worked at the mall from may 28 to jun 11 were alsorequired to undergo a swab testduring the period of closure, said moh previously.
"ion orchard continues to focus on the safety and well-being of its shoppers, visitors, and working communities, and will continue to work closely with the authorities on any additional necessary precautionary measures," said the mall.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a recalcitrant offender is back behind bars after he worked with his wife to steal budget 2020 grocery vouchers worth $10,800 in total from 72 victims.
in an unrelated case, zulkeflei mohamed yatim, who has been in and out of jail since the 1990s for crimes including multiple drug-related offences and theft, also assaulted his 21-year-old stepson.
the 42-year-old singaporean was on wednesday (june 16) sentenced to 84 weeks' jail after he pleaded guilty to 15 counts of theft involving vouchers worth $2,250.
he also admitted to an assault charge.
another 58 charges, including those linked to the remaining vouchers, were considered during sentencing.
his wife, tanty yohaida samad, had earlier admitted to 15 counts of theft and was sentenced to 48 weeks' jail in april.
the budget 2020 grocery voucher scheme was rolled out last year to help less well-off singaporeans with their household expenses amid the covid-19 outbreak.
deputy public prosecutor phoebe tan said that as a result of the offences, the 72 vulnerable victims, who included senior citizens, were deprived of the vouchers.
the couple have not made any restitution.
they had used the vouchers to obtain items including multiple mobile phones, which they then sold for cash.
tanty was the mastermind and she had discussed her plans with her husband, who agreed to take part in the offences.
on multiple occasions last october, the couple, who lived in marsiling, went to letterboxes in the wee hours and looked for those with unsecured flaps.
they then used a clothes hanger to fish out envelopes containing budget 2020 grocery vouchers.
each envelope contained 15 $10 vouchers.
on other occasions, zulkeflei used a pair of pliers to break open letterboxes to obtain the vouchers while his wife acted as a lookout.
their offences came to light when the police received reports from at least 19 people about  missing vouchers.
separately, the court heard that tanty had a personal protection order against zulkeflei, which was issued on feb 6 last year.
court documents do not reveal the reasons behind the order.
on may 17 last year, she went to zulkeflei's marsiling flat with her son to collect some items as they had assumed her husband would not be home.
the pair met zulkeflei inside the unit and ran out when a dispute broke out.
zulkeflei chased the pair and repeatedly rained blows on his stepson.
tanty alerted the police when the attack ended.
her son went to khoo teck puat hospital where he was found with injuries including a bruised left cheek.
appearing in court via video link on wednesday, zulkeflei, who was unrepresented, said that he is remorseful.
for each count of theft, an offender can be jailed for up to three years and fined.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
sydney:     asian markets looked set for a rough ride on thursday after the u. s.  federal reserve stunned investors by signalling it might raise interest rates at a much faster pace than assumed, sending yields and the dollar sharply higher.
the dollar boasted its strongest single day gain in 15 months as 10-year u. s.  treasury yields jumped by the most since early march.
the initial fallout in equities was not as bad with s&p 500 futures down just 0.
2per cent in early asian trade, while nasdaq futures were off 0.
3per cent.
nikkei futures were also down a modest 0.
3per cent.
emerging markets might not fare as well as they are particularly vulnerable to the chance of early u. s.  rate hikes to contain inflation, which could suck funds out of riskier assets.
"the new fed 'dot plot' indicating that the median fomc member now forecasts two fed rate hikes in 2023, versus none in the march iteration, represented the hawkish surprise out of the june fed meeting," said ray attrill, head of fx strategy at nab.
the fed forecasts, or dot plots, showed 13 of the 18 person policy board saw rates rising in 2023 versus only six previously, while seven tipped a first move in 2022. while the plots are not commitments and have a poor track record of predicting rates, the sudden shift was still a shock.
the fed rubbed salt into the wound by signalling it would now be considering whether to taper its asset purchases meeting by meeting and downgraded the risk from the pandemic given progress in vaccination.
analysts at jpmorgan noted chair jerome powell was not as aggressive in his media conference.
"it appears that faster progress toward reopening and higher inflation surprises revealed some hawks on the fomc, but we suspect that leadership is predominantly anchored at zero or one hike in 2023," they said in a note.
"we continue to look for lift-off in 2023, with tapering starting early next year.
"markets moved quickly to price in the risk of earlier action and fed fund futures shifted to imply a first hike by the end of 2022.  yields on 10-year bonds shot up almost nine basis points to 1.
57per cent.
the dollar smashed up out of recent tight ranges, rising 0.
9per cent overnight against a basket of currencies to 91.
387 for its biggest gain since march last year.
the euro was down at five-week lows of us$1.
1995 having shed 1.
1per cent overnight, the sharpest fall since march 2020.  the dollar also surged to 110.
69 yen and looked set to test its 2021 peak at 110.
96. the rise in bond yields and the dollar were a double blow for non-yielding gold which was down at us$1,817 an ounce after sliding 2.
5per cent overnight.
oil prices were insulated by the prospect of stronger world demand and still tight supply, with brent reaching its highest since april 2019 before running into profit taking.
brent was last off 12 cents at us$73.
87 a barrel, while u. s.  crude lost 65 cents to us$71.
50.
(editing by lincoln feast.
)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new york (afp) wall street stocks declined on wednesday (june 16) as the federal reserve edged a bit closer to tightening monetary policy while adopting a broadly dovish response to recent signs of inflation.
shares hit session lows shortly after the us central bank raised its inflation and growth forecast and released projections that showed a majority of fed officials expect interest rate hikes in 2023. however, equities recovered somewhat during fed chairman jerome powell's press conference during which he emphasised that he views recent price hikes as temporary, and that steps to restrict monetary supply are not imminent.
jason schenker of prestige economics said the overall message was "highly accommodative," but included "some hawkish changes at the margin.
"the dow jones industrial average finished at 34,033.
67, down 0.
8 per cent.
the broad-based s&p 500 ended down 0.
5 per cent at 4,223.
70, while the tech-rich nasdaq composite index lost 0.
2 per cent at 14,039.
68. large banks mostly rose, with jpmorgan chase up 0.
7 per cent and bank of america gaining 0.
6 per cent as long-term bond yields climbed following the fed announcement.
among individual companies, general motors jumped 1.
6 per cent as it again lifted its investment plan for electric and autonomous vehicle technology.
the auto giant now expects to spend us$35 billion through 2025, up 30 per cent from its prior plan.
oracle slumped 5.
6 per cent despite reporting better-than-expected results.
analysts expressed disappointment with the software giant's forecast.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    wednesday, 16 jun 2021
                 petaling jaya: the malay rulers have said that there is no need to extend the emergency beyond aug 1, says the keeper of the rulers' seal syed danial syed ahmad.
he said this in a statement following the king's decree earlier that the parliament is to reconvene as soon as possible.
this follows the special meeting of the malay rulers at istana negara earlier on wednesday (june 16) to discuss efforts to combat covid-19.
more to come
tags / keywords:
malay rulers
                                                                ,
                                                                                                king
                                                                ,
                                                                                                parliament
                                                                ,
                                                                                                istana negara
                                                                ,
                                                                                                emergency
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
alina chan isn't saying the coronavirus definitely leaked from a lab in china.
what she is saying is what more scientists have grown comfortable discussing publicly: there's no clear evidence either way.
"i know a lot of people want to have a smoking gun," said chan, a postdoctoral associate at the broad institute of mit and harvard university who specializes in genetic engineering and has been vocal about the need to investigate the possibility of a lab leak.
"it's more like breadcrumbs everywhere, and they're not always leading in one direction.
it's like the whole floor is covered in breadcrumbs.
"chan was one of 18 scientists who published a letter in the journal science last month calling for a more in-depth investigation into the virus's origin that takes into account theories about both natural occurrence and laboratory spillovers.
the letter helped kick-start a new round of calls to investigate the "lab leak hypothesis," including demands from president joe biden and several leading scientists.
and while public discussion of a potential lab leak has shifted significantly in recent months, as more people pay attention to a theory that was originally promulgated by former president donald trump and his followers, the scientific evidence has remained unchanged, according to interviews with five virologists who have experience in microbiology, infectious disease ecology and viral evolution.
the researchers offered near-uniform summations that few conclusions can be drawn based on the available scientific evidence, but they noted that the context and circumstances of the origin debate have changed, particularly as critics point out that china hasn't been fully transparent about the earliest days of the pandemic.
the shift reflects how some scientists who previously avoided the topic or were quick to dismiss it are grappling with enduring uncertainties about the virus's origin, free from the politicization that clouded such discussions during the trump administration.
chan said there had been trepidation among some scientists about publicly discussing the lab leak hypothesis for fear that their words could be misconstrued or used to support racist rhetoric about how the coronavirus emerged.
trump fueled accusations that the wuhan institute of virology, a research lab in the city where the first covid-19 cases were reported, was connected to the outbreak, and on numerous occasions he called the pathogen the "wuhan virus" or "kung flu.
""at the time, it was scarier to be associated with trump and to become a tool for racists, so people didn't want to publicly call for an investigation into lab origins," she said.
now, more scientists are comfortable confronting the gamut of plausible theories — particularly given china's opacity about the topic — although many still caution that entertaining the idea of a lab leak requires clear scientific proof, which hasn't materialized.
"there has been no new evidence over the past 16 months that the virus had a lab origin," said maciej boni, an associate professor of biology at penn state university, who specializes in tropical disease epidemiology and viral evolution.
a number of theories about how the virus may have emerged have been thrown out.
most that remain fall under three possible scenarios:the virus evolved naturally before spilling over into humans from an infected animal.
the virus evolved naturally, but an employee at the lab became infected from a sample and accidentally "leaked" it into the community.
scientists at the lab were manipulating virus samples and accidentally or intentionally released the pathogen.
what makes the virus's origin a complicated matter is that the various threads can be difficult to reconcile.
while most of the virologists who spoke to nbc news said the coronavirus probably evolved in nature, they agreed that it's reasonable to look into the possibility that it came from a lab.
at the heart of those suspicions is the wuhan institute of virology, a research facility founded in the 1950s that was the first in china to receive the highest level of biosafety clearance.
the institute's lab has a biosafety level of 4 (known as bsl-4, the highest level), meaning it is equipped to study the world's highest-risk infectious agents and toxins, those that require the strictest biocontainment measures.
it's that designation, and the lab's location in the city where the outbreak was first reported, that made the institute an early suspect.
"if we had a pandemic that was sourced near to a bsl-4 lab in the u. s. , the first thing you would be asking is if they were working with that pathogen in that lab," said an expert on evolutionary genetics of infectious diseases, andrew read, a professor of biology at penn state.
still, he cautioned that while a lab leak is plausible, that doesn't necessarily mean it's the most probable explanation.
boni said it's still more likely that the virus passed from an animal, such as a bat, into humans.
he said his experiences conducting field epidemiology work on avian influenza in vietnam from 2008 to 2016 showed how close contact with wildlife, such as in "wet markets" around the world where outdoor stalls sell meat, seafood and live animals for consumption, can create easy opportunities for pathogens to spill into human populations.
"going back over the past 25 years of emerging viruses that have crossed species boundaries from animals to humans, the most common route is something like a wet market or farm or some other form of human and animal contact," he said.
"these are far more common than lab accidents.
"the first cluster of covid-19 infections was traced to the huanan seafood market in wuhan, leading to early speculation that it may have been where the virus jumped from animals into humans.
but chinese researchers have since found that several of the earliest known cases of covid-19 in the city were unrelated to the market, meaning the virus may already have been spreading in the community.
a joint investigation this year by the world health organization and china focused on the possibility of a zoonotic, or animal, origin.
the team's report, released in march, found that the virus probably emerged in bats and jumped to an intermediary animal before it spread to humans.
the team also downplayed the theory that the virus leaked from the wuhan institute, describing the scenario as "extremely unlikely. "
but the who-led investigation was heavily criticized for not doing enough to review all plausible hypotheses.
and the validity of the findings was questioned because the investigation hinged on china's cooperation, and the chinese government didn't give researchers access to full records and raw data.
chan and 17 other scientists, including ralph baric, a virologist at the university of north carolina, chapel hill; david relman, a microbiologist at stanford university; and akiko iwasaki, an immunologist at yale university, signed the letter in science in response to the shortcomings of the who report.
within the scientific community, the letter was seen as something of a turning point, lending credibility to the hypothesis that the virus may have escaped from the lab.
"i think it had a big effect," chan said.
"i think it literally helped all the people who wanted to investigate this by saying: this is not bogus.
top scientists think this is plausible.
"calls for a more in-depth investigation into both the natural origin theory and the lab leak hypothesis have been fueled, at least in part, by growing circumstantial evidence uncovered over the last year by a band of anonymous internet sleuths.
last year, a member of the amateur investigative team, which calls itself drastic (short for decentralized radical autonomous search team investigating covid-19), combed through online records and found a 2013 thesis by a postgraduate student at kunming medical university in china that described six workers at a mine in yunnan province who fell ill with severe pneumonia caused by a "sars-like" coronavirus.
three of the mine workers eventually died, but not much else is known about the situation.
in research published in november by scientists at the wuhan institute, serum samples from four of the mine workers were tested and showed no trace of sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19.
separately, a u. s.  intelligence report disclosed that three researchers at the wuhan institute sought treatment at a hospital after they fell ill in november 2019, as the wall street journal first reported in may.
during the who-led investigation this year, officials at the wuhan institute said all staff members had tested negative for covid-19 antibodies.
its leaders have been adamant that the virus didn't escape from the facility, but the chinese government's reluctance to share records and test results has cast suspicion over what the lab's scientists knew — and when.
although they are far from conclusive, the intelligence report and the mine workers' mysterious illnesses have been presented as circumstantial evidence that scientists at the wuhan institute were studying risky coronaviruses similar to sars-cov-2 and that the virus may have escaped from the lab, perhaps after an employee became infected.
the mine incident also drew attention to a separate sars-like virus that chinese researchers collected from a bat in yunnan province in 2013.  shi zhengli, a prominent bat researcher who directs the center for emerging infectious diseases at the wuhan institute of virology, co-wrote a paper published in february 2020 detailing the virus, known as ratg13.
the genomes of ratg13 and sars-cov-2 were found to be 96.
2 percent alike, prompting some to wonder whether the pandemic had been caused by lab experiments on ratg13 that had gone awry.
the similarities between the two viruses also raised questions about the possibility that chinese researchers were conducting "gain of function" experiments, which involve manipulating viruses in a lab to make them more dangerous or more transmissible to understand their inner workings.
gain-of-function research isn't altogether uncommon in virology, but such experiments are controversial because of the risks.
a scientist could, for example, unwittingly or by design create a pathogen that is better adapted to invade human cells or cause more severe infections.
but there are real benefits to gain-of-function research, said robert garry, a virologist at tulane university in new orleans.
for one, understanding the characteristics of a virus and its transmissibility is critical to developing vaccines and lifesaving drugs, he said.
he said most virologists take the responsibility of such experiments seriously.
"it's not the wild west," he said.
"it's very highly regulated.
"in 2014, the u. s.  national institutes of health imposed a moratorium on gain-of-function research after two lab accidents involving anthrax and a strain of h5n1 bird flu occurred at the centers for disease control and prevention.
funding for gain-of-function experiments was paused for three years while the government conducted safety assessments.
the ban was reversed in january 2017, during the trump administration, after an independent science advisory panel found that the overall risk to public safety was low.
while it's possible that scientists at the wuhan institute were making genetic tweaks to samples, a coronavirus like ratg13 that is 96.
2 percent similar still can't easily be altered to create sars-cov-2, garry said.
"taking a virus that is 96 percent similar and sequencing and converting it to sars-cov-2 is impossible," he said.
"that kind of evolution takes maybe three to five decades in nature.
you just can't force that in a lab.
"dr.  charles chiu, a virologist at the university of california, san francisco, added that the differences between ratg13 and sars-cov-2 exceed the capabilities of genetic engineering.
"the differences are scattered throughout the genome," he said.
"there's a big difference between 96 percent similar and 100 percent identical.
we just don't have the ability to make those kinds of changes.
"in other words, the experts say, it's unlikely that scientists could snip and splice bits of a virus or tweak a pathogen's genome in such a way that would create sars-cov-2, even if researchers were using closely related coronaviruses.
"we're very good at imitating nature — we have, for instance, been able to synthesize polio virus — but our ability to manipulate or change the sequence of viruses is still limited," chiu said.
chan, of the broad institute, wasn't ready to rule out the possibility of genetic engineering, saying that if minor tweaks were being made to virus samples, it could be difficult to detect the fingerprints of such work.
"you can do recombination without leaving a trace," she said.
"basically, it's like you can 3d-print clothing with no seams, so it's difficult to tell if anything has been manipulated or stitched together in a lab.
"chan acknowledged that it's "definitely possible" that the virus evolved in nature but added that all options should be kept on the table because neither the natural origins theory nor the lab leak hypothesis can be ruled out.
"all the evidence right now is circumstantial, and it's consistent with both lab and natural origins," she said.
"there's precedents for lab leaks, the genetic data could swing either way, and the epidemiological data, which is how it unfolded in wuhan, can also swing either way.
none of this is pointing in any one direction.
"and it may be years, or even decades, before scientists have any clarity on the topic.
the ebola virus, which was discovered in 1976, is thought to have spread to humans from bats or nonhuman primates, but scientists still haven't identified the origin from a specific animal host.
"the key issue here is that we simply don't have the information to make really firm conclusions," said chiu, of the university of california, san francisco, referring to covid-19.
"unless we know exactly what happened, we're simply making guesses.
"new documents and interviews show how the president and his senior aides cherry-picked evidence and sidelined the government's own virus sleuths.
(bloomberg) -- chinese president xi jinping is renewing his years-long push to achieve technology self-sufficiency by tapping a top deputy to shepherd a key initiative aimed at helping domestic chipmakers overcome u. s.  sanctions.
liu he, xi's economic czar whose sprawling portfolio spans trade to finance and technology, has been tapped to spearhead the development of so-called third-generation chip development and capabilities and is leading the formulation of a series of financial and policy supthe chinese virologist at the center of a theory that covid-19 originated in a laboratory in wuhan has angrily denied the claims as "filth" in a rare interview.
dr shi zhengli is the wuhan institute of virology's (wiv) leading expert on coronaviruses and her work has fuelled speculation over how the first cases of covid-19 were detected in the same city.
the wiv's refusal to allow an independent investigation of its laboratory or its research into coronaviruses has further fuelled suspicions thachina has spent decades overfishing its waters and decimating its sea life.
now, with nowhere left to go, the country's massive fishing fleet has pushed itself into international waters and at times resorted to predatory (and illegal) fishing practices in other countries' coastal domains.
a space force wildlife manager doing a sea-turtle nesting survey found an estimated $1.
2 million worth of cocaine that washed up on a florida beach.
the chinese government says the issue at the taishan facility is "common" and did not cause a leak.
vishnell consiglio wore a $14,000 see-through berta dress to her catholic wedding.
she wore a hot-pink lehenga to her sikh wedding.
following their "very robust conversation" with vice president kamala harris, democratic state legislators from texas conceded that while the biden administration wants to see federal voting reform legislation make it to the president's desk, the hurdle to passage is the u. s.  senate -- but they aren't giving up on conversations with those lawmakers.
"we know it's a priority for the administration but quite frankly it lies in the senate," state sen.  carol alvarado, the chair of the texas senate democratic caucus, said after the meeting at the white house wednesday.
harris met with more than a dozen democratic lawmakers from texas, applauding them as "courageous leaders" for staging a walkout in the final hours of the state's regular legislative session last month.
"as far as cybersecurity is concerned, we agreed that we would begin consultations on that issue," the russian president said.
jun.
15 -- the biden administration is engaging with china to get boeing 737 max planes back in service there.
they were banned after several crashes.
commerce secretary gina raimondo also talks about broader trade issues with china and europe.
she's in belgium with president biden for the u. s. -eu summit.
she spoke to bloomberg's david westin.
the march posed a test for israel's fragile new government as well as the tenuous truce that ended last month's 11-day war between israel and hamas.
i had the rare opportunity to watch vladimir putin in action during my four-year stint serving as a senior communications aide to former secretary of state john kerry.
why it matters: from his timing to his baiting techniques and his postgame spin, russia's president commands an array of tactics aimed at putting u. s.  leaders on the defensive and in response mode — and has decades of experience fine-tuning them.
stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with axios markets.
subscnasa: earth is trapping 'unprecedented' amount of heat, warming 'faster than expected'discussions that focus on countering a chinese invasion of taiwan risk overlooking a threat that doesn't require beijing to storm any beaches.
the department of justice on monday night asked the supreme court to reinstate the death penalty for boston marathon bomber dzhokhar tsarnaev.
why it matters: biden is the first sitting president to publicly oppose the death penalty and has said he wants to end its use.
get market news worthy of your time with axios markets.
subscribe for free.
the biden administration's action on the appeal to the supreme court, which was launched following a request from former president trump last year, was higthe bill to award gold medal to officers who responded to the insurrection passed, but 21 gop lawmakers opposed itwhile most americans expect electric vehicles eventually to dominate the nation's roadways, many have greeted the first battery-powered models with skepticism, expressing concerns about the potential costs and inconveniences of owning such vehicles, a reuters/ipsos poll showed.
automakers have already recognized the challenge and said they plan to market future battery-powered models by touting their performance and long-term cost savings over environmental benefits.
vehicle manufacturers need to win over more rural americans and republicans, with the survey showing those groups express less enthusiasm than others for electric vehicles.
the chinese government cited malicious, slanderous behavior as its rationale for tighter regulations to be imposed on online fan communities.
updated with latest: the white house has announced tonight that president joe biden will on thursday sign the bill passed today in congress that will make juneteenth a federal holiday.
when the white house press office sent its daily guidance for thursday to media late today, it included the following: "3:30 p. m. : the president signs [.
.
.
]an asian giant hornet was found dead near seattle — the first such sighting in the united states this year, per ap.
why it matters: the 2-inch-long invasive insects, known as "murder hornets," pose a threat to honeybees and native hornet species, and their extremely painful stings can be deadly to human beings.
stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with axios markets.
subscribe for freewhat's happening: entomologists from washington state and the usda confirmed a report of
taipei, taiwan (ap) — china flew a record 28 fighter jets toward the self-ruled island of taiwan on tuesday, the island's defense ministry said, the largest such display of force since beijing began sending planes on a near daily basis last year.
taiwan's air force deployed its combat air patrol forces in response and monitored the situation in the southwestern part of the island's air defense identification zone with its air defense systems, the ministry of national defense said.
the planes included various types of fighter jets including 14 j-16 and six j-11 planes, as well as bombers, the ministry said.
china's show of force comes after leaders of the group of seven industrialized nations issued a statement sunday calling for a peaceful resolution of cross-taiwan strait issues and underscored the importance of peace and stability.
chinese foreign ministry spokesperson zhao lijian on tuesday said the g-7 was deliberately "interfering in china's internal affairs.
""china's determination to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests is unwavering," he said.
taiwan and china split during a civil war in 1949, but china continues to claim taiwan as part of its territory.
taiwan has been self-ruled since then.
since the election of president tsai ing-wen in 2016, china has increased diplomatic and military pressure on the government over her refusal to agree to china's insistence that the island be considered part of chinese territory.
the vast majority of taiwanese reject the prospect of political union with china under the "one country, two systems" framework used for hong kong.
since last year, china has been flying fighter jets toward the island almost daily in what it calls a demonstration of its seriousness in defending its national sovereignty.
previously, the largest such maneuver was in march, when china sent 25 fighter planes toward taiwan.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
tokyo: a goalkeeper from myanmar's national team who raised an anti-coup salute during a match outside tokyo has refused to fly home and will seek asylum in japan, his lawyer told afp on thursday (jun 17).
myanmar has been in turmoil since a february coup ousted aung san suu kyi's elected government, sparking huge protests and renewed clashes between the military and ethnic rebel armies in border regions.
last month, substitute goalkeeper pyae lyan aung raised the three-finger salute as the national anthem played before a world cup qualifier against japan.
late on wednesday, he told a japanese immigration officer at an airport in osaka that he would not board a plane back to myanmar, his lawyer shogo watanabe told afp, confirming earlier local reports.
"after confirming his wishes, we will proceed with procedures to seek refugee status either in osaka or in tokyo," watanabe added.
"it's obvious (that he is a political refugee) after he made the three-finger salute .
.
.
i hope his refugee status will be recognised as soon as possible," watanabe said, adding the process could take months.
national broadcaster nhk showed footage of the player speaking through a translator in osaka on wednesday evening.
"if i return to myanmar, my life would be in danger.
i decided to stay in japan," footage broadcast by nhk showed him saying through a translator at the airport.
"the japanese government and people must know myanmar's situation.
i call for your cooperation," he added.
the three-finger salute has frequently been used as a show of resistance by protesters during demonstrations that have been brutally repressed, with more than 800 people killed and thousands wounded, according to rights groups.
the footballer, whose teammates are believed to have returned home on wednesday, said he will not go back until ousted leader aung san suu kyi returns to power.
but he admitted worries about the consequences of his decision, adding: "if any danger happens to my teammates or family members, i would return to myanmar to be arrested.
"japan's immigration agency could not immediately be reached for comment.
japan accepts just a handful of asylum applications each year, but in may the justice ministry said myanmar residents already in the country would be able to extend their stays as an emergency measure, given the coup and resulting violence.
the decision comes just over a month before japan hosts the olympics, and could raise questions about whether other athletes might seek asylum during the games.
japan has longstanding ties with myanmar and has described itself as the country's largest provider of economic assistance.
following the coup, tokyo froze new aid to myanmar and the foreign minister has warned even existing projects could be halted if the military junta continues to use violence against protesters.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a senior ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer caught on video making racist remarks against an interracial couple in public is to be fired for a "serious breach" of the school's staff code of conduct, said np on thursday (17 june).
in a facebook post, np said the staff member, who was not named, has been officially charged with breaching the code and will be let go.
"our staff members are expected to respect cultural, ethnic and religious differences in our society.
they must uphold secularity and impartiality at all times," it added.
this follows internal investigations into the aforementioned incident, as well as an online post by an np alumna alleging that the same staff member had made islamophobic remarks in class in 2017.
"np understands that police investigations are ongoing.
we will fully cooperate with the authorities.
"the lecturer, identified in various media reports as tan boon lee, 60, was seen in a viral facebook video posted by david parkash on 6 june, arguing with the latter at orchard road that interracial dating between indian men and chinese women is "racist".
he added, "i have nothing against you personally but i think it's racist that the indians prey on the chinese girls.
"three days later, np alumna nurul fatimah iskandar alleged in an instagram post that tan had made islamophobic comments in a 2017 class.
tan reportedly taught at the polytechnic's school of engineering and was suspended by np last week.
np said that it had reached out to the alumna to "express regret" and offer her counselling support.
"we have since met her to get more details of her experience and would like to apologise for the distress that she suffered.
"the school noted that the former student could not recall whether she had emailed her feedback on the incident or raised it during a post-course focus group discussion (fgd) in 2017.  fgds are typically held at the end of every semester to seek students' feedback on courses and lecturers.
and while records of her feedback could not be found, np is "committed to preventing a similar incident from occurring again", and will ensure that students are made aware of the appropriate channels for them to provide feedback in a safe manner.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:'horrible': k shanmugam responds to video of man claiming interracial dating is 'racist'use of wedding photo for hari raya 'culturally insensitive' but 'not racist': people's associationman jailed over racist remarks on sharonliew86 'parody' accountburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
singapore: a landlord was given 11 weeks' jail and a s$2,000 fine on tuesday (jun 15) for repeatedly appearing naked in front of his female tenant and using criminal force on her by holding or pulling her hands.
chan eng hui, 56, had contested the charges at trial, giving explanations that the prosecutor likened to spinning "a fairy tale" about how he came to be naked.
these included the wind blowing the door open while he was in the toilet, him slipping on the floor after a shower and having to stroke his penis to ease the pain.
the judge found his evidence inconsistent, shifting, contradictory and "difficult to accept".
in contrast, the victim was "forthcoming and unhesitating" with unshaken evidence, she said.
chan was convicted of four charges of insulting a woman's modesty and two charges of criminal force.
the court heard that chan lived in a flat with his wife in western singapore.
the victim rented a bedspace from chan for s$250 per month from april 2018 at the recommendation of a property agent.
she shared a room with chan's wife and two other people.
another two tenants lived in another room.
the accused slept in a makeshift room next to the main door of the house that was partitioned with a curtain.
the victim's testimonythe victim testified at trial that she did not know chan before she moved into the flat.
they were on talking terms while she lived there, but she stopped making small talk with him after a former female tenant told her that chan had appeared naked in her room before.
between may 10 and may 12 in 2018, chan suddenly held her hand and asked her to "go eat".
the victim rejected him and told him that he could "just talk and not get touchy".
she said she felt "turned off" and "annoyed" and did not consent to him holding her hand.
she said chan grabbed her hand forcefully on a separate occasion when she walked past him and he wanted to speak with her.
she flung his hand away and told him not to get touchy, before going to her room.
chan's lawyer suggested during the trial that chan was merely trying to get up when he did this, as he had difficulty getting up after sitting for a long time.
the repeated nuditybetween end-june to mid-july 2018, the victim was walking out of the kitchen when she saw chan standing inside the toilet naked, with the toilet door wide open and touching himself.
she asked him what he was doing but he did not stop.
at the time, chan's wife was asleep in another room.
a few days later, the victim was in the kitchen when she turned around to see chan naked.
she scolded him, but he smiled and told her that he was going to the toilet to shower.
about one to two months later, the victim was leaving the house and had turned to shut the main door when she saw chan naked, facing the main door.
she pushed the door open and shouted angrily at him: "you pervert.
you like, you enjoy letting people see, is it?
then you should let everyone take a look at you.
"chan went into his makeshift room and came out wearing a pair of shorts.
he accused the victim of talking nonsense and maligning him.
between september and october 2018, while the victim was at the kitchen sink, he again stood behind her naked.
she scolded him and threw a bowl towards him.
the bowl hit the wall and shattered.
chan "appeared indifferent" and collected the shards, asking the victim whether she "had to do this", the court heard.
her defensive actionsthe victim said she was angry and felt "bullied" by chan.
from the time chan began appearing naked in front of her, she started keeping weapons nearby to protect herself and locked her door before going to bed.
however, chan changed the lock so she could not lock it.
she improvised by using a chair to block the door, and made sure scissors or knives were in her reach.
she avoided chan and made sure there were others in the flat before she returned home.
in late december 2018, she managed to record an audio clip as she spoke to chan.
she asked chan: "why did you (not) wear your pants when you appeared behind me suddenly?
"chan replied: "you have not agreed to me for so long .
.
.
you see that fish, you think i can control myself?
when you don't give the fish to the cat, what do you think it will feel?
i am a man, you think i am made of wood is it?
you don't have feeling, but i am a man, i have feeling.
"the victim made a police report that same month.
she said she hesitated as she was worried about how troublesome it would be.
she also had difficulties finding a new place to live in and moved out only in january 2019. chan's defencechan initially was defended by a lawyer but wound up representing himself.
he claimed that the victim was in a relationship with him and had agreed to have sex with him in exchange for a reduction in rent.
he also said his wife had returned to china and he was "bored", but immigration records showed she was in singapore at the time.
chan later changed his tune to say he was just friends with the victim and found her "repulsive".
he made derogatory comments about her looks, and claimed her motive was to chase his wife away and occupy his house.
in his defence, chan said the incident when he was standing fully naked in the toilet with the door wide open was because the wind blew the door open.
as for the incident where the victim saw him stroking himself, he said he had slipped and fallen after a shower.
because of the pain, he stroked his penis, he said.
the judge said his testimony was inconsistent and his explanations were not corroborated by his police statements.
he told police that he could not control his urges and apologised, saying he regretted his actions.
the prosecutor said chan was previously convicted in 2009 and 2010 of obscene acts in public.
at the time of the offences, he was an "experienced landlord of some 10 to 12 years", she added.
she said chan is "entirely unremorseful", and there was premeditation and abuse of trust as the victim's landlord.
he also caught her unawares by standing naked and stationary behind her, waiting for her to turn around.
"while offenders are free to claim trial, this does not translate to a carte blanche to spin an entire fairy tale in court, or blatantly besmirch the repute of prosecution witnesses," said deputy public prosecutor krystle chiang.
as chan is unable to pay the s$2,000 fine, he will have to serve an additional two weeks' jail in default.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
two shipwrecks, one dating possibly to the 14th century and the other to the 18th century, have been excavated within singapore's waters a first for the nation and a ground-breaking development for its maritime heritage.
both wrecks, bearing chinese ceramics as their primary cargo, were found in the waters off pedra branca, a rocky outcrop surrounded by shallow waters where ships throughout history had come to grief.
the plan is to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year.
maritime archaeologist michael flecker, who supervised both excavations, described the first wreck as a "pretty remarkable" find, as it is contemporary with the temasek period that spans the 1300s to 1600s.
in 2015, commercial divers carrying out salvage works for another project stumbled upon several ceramic plates, which they handed over to the iseas yusof ishak institute because of their uncanny resemblance to artefacts they had seen in the news.
the institute dated the plates to the 14th century, which kick-started an excavation project, beginning with an initial survey in 2016, said the national heritage board (nhb) and iseas yesterday.
a survey of the area around pedra branca in 2019 revealed the second wreck, which was identified as the india-built merchant vessel shah munchah, which sank in 1796 as it was returning to india from china.
recovery works for the second wreck are nearing completion.
in an interview with the straits times on monday about the historic finds, dr flecker said various chinese ceramics formed a majority of the haul from the first wreck, with some matching those previously excavated in mainland singapore.
ceramics from the wreck are also similar to those excavated at empress place in 2015, and more research will be done to improve existing knowledge on maritime trading history in the region during the 14th century.
dr flecker, who has more than 30 years of maritime archaeology experience, added that the yuan dynasty blue-and-white ceramic haul from the first wreck is also the largest that has been recovered from a shipwreck to date.
"there's been only three other (wreck) sites with yuan blue-and-white porcelain anywhere in the world, and in much smaller quantities," he said, adding that it was clear from the primary cargo of both vessels chinese ceramics that they were loaded in china.
the shah munchah wreck site yielded a much wider range of artefacts, from instruments to cannon.
the heaviest finds were four anchors as long as 5m and weighing 2.
5 tonnes each and nine cannon, which required a crane vessel to remove them from the seabed.
a diver holds a bowl decorated with chinese characters, recovered from the deep part of a trove of items found in singapore waters off pedra branca from two shipwrecks, one with cargo dating to as early as the 14th century.
among the items were the largest haul from a shipwreck of blue-and-white ceramics from the yuan dynasty.
the first wreck was discovered after commercial divers carrying out unrelated salvage works stumbled upon several ceramic plates, which they passed to the iseas yusof ishak institute as they bore an uncanny resemblance to artefacts they had seen in the news.
the institute dated the plates to the 14th century, and this kick-started an excavation project in 2016, the national heritage board (nhb) and iseas said yesterday.
a survey of the area around pedra branca in 2019 revealed the second wreck, identified as the india-built merchant vessel shah munchah, which sank in 1796.  the two historical shipwrecks are the first to be found in singapore's waters, and will contribute to a better understanding of the nation's maritime past.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
artefacts are currently being stored at facilities managed by both nhb and iseas, where they will be cleaned, conserved and catalogued.
the two historical shipwrecks are the first to be found within singapore's waters, and will contribute to a better understanding of the nation's maritime past.
there's been only three other (wreck) sites with yuan blue-and-white porcelain anywhere in the world, and in much smaller quantities.
as there were no claims to the wrecks and their artefacts at the end of the stipulated notice period of a month, they have been claimed by singapore.
although it is very likely there are more wrecks on the seabed in singapore's waters, some of these have been covered by reclamation, while heavy maritime traffic in the singapore strait makes locating others a hazard.
nhb's director of heritage research and assessment yeo kirk siang said: "as an island that has been serving as the gateway to asia for centuries, singapore today is the legacy of our rich maritime heritage.
"we will continue to research the significance of the artefacts and find ways to promote the knowledge, so as to enable more people to learn about them and singapore's maritime history.
"nhb plans to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year, while iseas will likely publish findings progressively in reports and research papers.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing (china daily/asia news network) the olympic games are about competition and achievements, both individual and national, but certainly not only about them.
the olympics also bring political and economic benefits for host cities and countries, and helps them attract more tourists and better promote their culture.
these beneficial impacts are often called the "olympic miracle" or the "olympic effect".
yet, the tokyo summer olympics and paralympics, already deferred from 2020 to this year, have put japan in a difficult position.
whether or not the olympics are held from july 23 to aug 8 and the paralympics from aug 24 to sept 5, as planned, they are unlikely to measure up to the political and economic expectations of the japanese government.
according to a survey by asahi shimbun, one of the largest-selling newspapers in japan, in may, more than 80 per cent of respondents said they don't want the olympics to be held this summer.
while 43 per cent said the games should be cancelled, 40 per cent said it should be further postponed.
asahi shimbun, which is one of the official sponsors of the tokyo olympics, published an editorial following the survey, urging japanese prime minister yoshihide suga to cancel the games.
the editorial stressed: "the foremost priority must lie on maintaining a basic structure that protects the lives, health and livelihoods of citizens.
the olympics must never be allowed to invite a situation that threatens this structure.
"but despite the growing opposition, the international olympic committee (ioc) has said the games will go ahead, putting the japanese government in a dilemma because it knows the games may not benefit japan.
initially, japan viewed the 2020 tokyo olympics as "economic recovery games", but it is likely to result in financial losses.
japan has been in economic stagnation since the bursting of the asset price bubble in late 1991.  and although the japanese government has adopted several fiscal stimulus policies over the years, the country's economy is yet to see a strong rebound.
so the japanese authorities pinned their hopes on the olympics to attract more foreign investment and tourists to invigorate the economy.
the fact, however, is, foreign spectators have been banned due to the covid-19 pandemic, and the organisers are expected to decide by the end of this month whether to allow domestic spectators into the stadiums.
holding the games without spectators will limit the revenues to 1.
66 trillion yen (s$20 billion), some 146.
8 billion yen less than if domestic spectators attend the events.
to make matters worse, japan's economy shrank by 5.
1 per cent year on year in the january-march period, due partly to the increased expenditure to prevent and control the spread of the virus, according to government data.
and negative gross domestic product (gdp) growth is forecast to continue into the second and third quarters.
hence, even if the olympics are held, it may not benefit the japanese economy.
besides, the nomura research institute, a japan-based think-tank and systems integrator, has estimated that cancelling the tokyo olympics and paralympics would cost japan about 1.
8 trillion yen.
and as per a contract, if tokyo is in any way responsible for the cancellation of the games, it would have to pay all the money the ioc would owe to broadcasters, sponsors and the like.
the suga administration, too, cannot benefit much from the olympics.
the decision to hold the games not only involves economic but also political concerns.
some japanese politicians fear a loss of face if the tokyo games are cancelled and the beijing 2022 winter olympic games are successfully held.
that may also damage the suga administration's image and pose a challenge to the ruling party.
moreover, the japanese authorities believe the olympics symbolise the country's recovery, just like the 1964 tokyo games did 19 years after the end of world war ii.
an asahi shimbun survey conducted on may 15-16 showed that the approval rating for the suga cabinet had declined to 33 per cent, the lowest since its formation in september and down from the 40 per cent in the previous survey in april.
some media reports even said the tokyo games may face a shortage of medical workers if held as planned.
meanwhile, since mr suga has reiterated that the olympics will be held this summer, opposition parties are trying to win more seats in the tokyo metropolitan assembly's election to be held on july 4, in order to weaken the government and get more support in the next election.
thus, for the suga administration, the tokyo olympics are not only an opportunity to rebuild japan's image, but also a tool it can use to win the next election.
actually, neither japan or tokyo nor the japanese olympic committee or the tokyo organising committee has the power to cancel the games.
a contract they signed back in 2013, when tokyo won the right to host the olympics, gives that power exclusively to the ioc.
only the ioc has the right to terminate the contract if it thinks that "the health or safety of participants in the games would be seriously threatened or jeopardised for any reason".
since the first modern olympic games in 1896, the once-in-four-year event has been cancelled only three times due to the two world wars.
and sadly, the tokyo olympics, whether it is cancelled or held as planned, won't be able to promote the olympic spirit, guarantee the safety of the participants and officials, or help the japanese economy.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a singaporean man who had worked for china's intelligence services since 2015 has been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for being a threat to singapore.
dickson yeo, 40, had acted as a paid agent of a foreign state, said the internal security department (isd) on tuesday (june 15).
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year, after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains," said the department.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said that yeo was tasked with sourcing information and providing reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
he had approached various individuals in singapore to try and obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports.
yeo had set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities, as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
"he had also tried, but failed, to secure employment in the singapore government sector to further his information-gathering activities.
yeo had carried out these activities over a period from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019," said isd.
the department said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's continued detention is necessary to allow the isd to find out the full extent of his activities.
during a trip to beijing in 2015, yeo was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy at the national university of singapore at that time.
us court documents show he admitted to being offered money in exchange for political reports and information, initially on south-east asia, before focusing on the us.
he also made numerous trips to meet the chinese agents he was in contact with, trawled social networking sites to find targets and was directed to set up a fake consulting firm, resolute consulting the same name as a renowned us firm.
he registered the company in singapore in early 2018 and got more than 400 resumes, mostly american military and government staff with security clearances.
he then got a post as a visiting scholar at george washington university in washington and travelled to the us to continue his efforts.
living in the washington area from january 2019 to july 2019, yeo exploited networking opportunities in the area to spot and assess individuals from whom he could extract information.
he was questioned by immigration officers at the john f.  kennedy airport in new york, when he returned to the us in november 2019. spooked, he booked a flight to return the next day, when he was approached by federal bureau of investigation agents.
he agreed to be interviewed and was taken into custody.
news of yeo's arrest and guilty plea was announced last july and he was sentenced last october.
he maintained before the court that he was supportive of the chinese cause and claimed that he did not betray singapore.
when announcing his arrest upon returning to singapore, isd said yeo had revealed to us investigators that his previous intelligence taskings targeted other states, apart from the us.
"the singapore government takes a very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government and engages in activities at the behest of the foreign power that is inimical to our national security and interests, including bilateral relations," said the isd on tuesday.
dickson yeo, who is enrolled as a phd student at the lee kuan yew school of public policy, travels to beijing to give a presentation on south-east asian politics.
he is recruited by chinese intelligence operatives there.
yeo uses a professional networking website to contact and recruit a civilian working with the us air force on the f-35 fighter jet programme.
the civilian writes a report for yeo and gives him information on the geopolitical implications of japan purchasing f-35 aircraft from the us.
yeo creates a fake consulting company to harvest resumes from us military and government employees with access to sensitive information.
yeo recruits a us state department employee and pays him to write a report about an unnamed member of the us cabinet.
he moves to washington, dc, to network with people and tries to recruit them.
his linkedin profile lists him as a doctoral fellow at the george washington university during this time.
yeo returns to the us to ask a us army officer working at the pentagon to provide classified information.
he is stopped and arrested after landing at the airport.
yeo pleads guilty to one charge of acting within the us as an illegal agent of a foreign power.
yeo's sentencing hearing is scheduled.
he receives a 14-month jail sentence, with the 11 months he had spent in jail credited towards his sentence.
yeo is deported to singapore from the us and arrested by the internal security department.
an order of detention under the internal security act is issued against yeo for acting as a paid agent of a foreign state.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

reinsurance news 16th june 2021 author: katie bakerre/insurers are expected to be on edge over the next six weeks as the tokyo olympics' opening nears, according to bloomberg intelligence.
after much deliberation, the international olympic committee (ioc) has decided to go ahead with the postponed 2020 olympics.
however, the ioc has taken out around $800 million in event-cancellation insurance, with additional cover purchased by the local organising committee.
including broadcasters, sponsors, professional sports teams and hospitality, analysis from bloomberg intelligence estimate the insured cost of cancelling the event to be in the $2-$3 billion range.
with the olympic games set to begin at the end of next month, insurance losses could be large if the games are cancelled, as japan faces emergency measures to contain covid-19 infections.
swiss re said last year that its direct olympic exposure was $250 million (or about 1% of net-earned premiums) and munich re hasn't specified, but it likely has exposure in the hundreds of millions of euros, some of which may already have been reserved.
charles graham, senior industry analyst at bloomberg intelligence says: "insurers and reinsurers will be on tenterhooks over the next six weeks as the tokyo olympics' opening nears, with any cancellation of the already postponed 2020 event potentially costing the sector $2-$3 billion in aggregate, based on our calculations.
that would hit an event-cancellation industry already battered by record 2020 claims.
"according to the latest polls, opposition in japan to holding the olympic games may be easing after the number of covid-19 cases dropped.
medical opinion remains strongly opposed to the games taking place, with reports that japanese corporate sponsors also favoured a postponement after international spectators were excluded.
the ioc is focused on making the games as safe as possible, with plans for daily testing and the vaccination of athletes, yet vaccination won't be compulsory.
a decision on allowing spectators into venues will be taken later this month.
by submitting the form you are giving your consent to be emailed by us.
advertise on reinsurance newswe have 185,000+ monthly reinsurance news readers & 15,500+ daily email subscribers.
reach the largest reinsurance audience.
we also publish artemis.
bm, the leading publisher of news, data and insight for the catastrophe bond, insurance-linked securities, reinsurance convergence, longevity risk transfer and weather risk management sectors.
.
we've published and operated artemis since its launch 20 years ago and have a readership of around 60,000 every month.
get in touch directly using our contact form.
or find and follow reinsurance news on social media.
get reinsurance news by email here.
all content copyright © steve evans ltd.  2021 all rights reserved.
steve evans ltd.  registered in england no.
07337195
website privacy & cookies and disclaimerinsurance commissioner dennis b.  funa has been reelected as the chairman of the management board of asian reinsurance corporation.
he.
.
.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two shipwrecks one dating possibly to the 14th century and the other to the 18th have been excavated within singapore's waters a first for the nation and a ground-breaking development for its maritime heritage.
both wrecks, bearing chinese ceramics as their primary cargo, were found in the waters off pedra branca, a rocky outcrop surrounded by shallow waters where ships throughout history have come to grief.
the plan is to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year.
maritime archaeologist michael flecker, who supervised both excavations, described the first wreck as a "pretty remarkable" find, as it is contemporary with the temasek period that spans the 1300s to 1600s.
while research may never reveal the exact vessel that sank, as no remnants of its hull remain, the second wreck has been identified as the india-built merchant vessel shah munchah.
it sank in 1796 as it was returning to india from china.
it all started with an accident.
a singapore-registered barge carrying two bulk loader cranes encountered bad weather while on its way to kuantan and ran aground at pedra branca on dec 30, 2014. the two cranes were at risk of toppling onto pedra branca's famous horsburgh lighthouse, which was built in 1851. to prevent this from happening, dynamite was attached to the two cranes, and they were blown up while two boats pulled them away from the lighthouse, scattering metal into the sea.
commercial divers were then hired to clear the area of these scraps.
it was while diving to retrieve the scraps in 2015 that mr ramdzan salim, a project manager, and mr ahmad qamarulhazman, a diver, stumbled across stacks of old ceramic plates, said dr michael flecker, a visiting fellow at the iseas yusof ishak institute's archaeology unit.
at around the same time, a 10-week-long archaeological dig was being carried out at a site in empress place.
the divers, while following media coverage of the findings, realised that some plates retrieved near pedra branca looked very similar to artefacts retrieved in empress place, and decided to hand over the plates to the institute for further research and safekeeping.
a large longquan bowl recovered from the first shipwreck.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute

some plates retrieved near pedra branca looked very similar to artefacts retrieved from an archaeological dig at empress place.
photo: national heritage board
upon the institute's confirmation that the plates were high-quality celadon ceramics dated to the 14th century, the national heritage board (nhb) partnered the institute to conduct a survey at the pedra branca site, discovering a shipwreck in 2016. following the end of excavation works for the first shipwreck, nhb and iseas conducted a survey around pedra branca and uncovered a second shipwreck dating to the late 18th century.
efforts were then made to excavate this shipwreck between 2019 and 2021. the first wreck was located about 100m north-west of the island, the nhb and iseas announced on wednesday (june 16).
the second wreck was found 300m east of pedra branca.
in an interview with the straits times about the historic finds, dr flecker said various chinese ceramics formed a large majority of the haul from the first wreck, with some matching those previously excavated in mainland singapore.
for instance, longquan greenware dishes from the first wreck match those that had been unearthed earlier at fort canning, with both bearing a double fish motif.
"from fort canning, there is a plate that is so similar you might almost be tempted to think they used the same stamp (to produce the motif)," said dr flecker, a visiting fellow at iseas.
while research is ongoing, dr flecker said the find would be especially significant if it could be proven that the vessel was going to call at singapore something he believes to be true.
ceramics from the wreck are also similar to those excavated at empress place in 2015, and more research will be done to improve existing knowledge on maritime trading history in the region during the 14th century.
dr flecker, who has more than 30 years of maritime archaeology experience, added that the yuan blue-and-white ceramic haul from the first wreck is also the largest that has been recovered from a shipwreck to date.
"there's only been three other (wreck) sites with yuan blue-and-white porcelain anywhere in the world, and in much smaller quantities," he said, adding that it was clear from the primary cargo of both vessels chinese ceramics that they were loaded in china.
the shah munchah wreck site yielded a much wider range of artefacts, from instruments to cannon.
among the surprising finds were percussion instruments, including a tambourine and a coconut shaker with a handle, said dr flecker.
wooden frame parasols, metal betel nut cutters and a myriad of figurines were also retrieved by divers.
the shah munchah wreck site yielded a wider range of artefacts, including glass bottle stopper, metal betal nut cutters, medallions and figurines.
photos: iseas yusof ishak institute
the heaviest finds were four anchors as long as 5m and weighing 2.
5 tonnes each and nine cannon, which required a craned vessel to remove them from the seabed.
dr flecker said the anchors were designed in the admiralty style, adding: "they are suitable for very large sailing vessels so it's a good find and it's well worth getting them up for conservation.
"the nine cannon, which dr flecker described as a "representative set" of what was used then, were typically mounted on ships employed by the east india company in the 18th and early 19th centuries, and used for defence as well as signalling.
a cannon from the site of the shah munchah shipwreck is lifted on board.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
artefacts are currently being stored at facilities managed by both nhb and iseas, where they will be cleaned, conserved and catalogued.
about the shah munchah, dr flecker said: "had she survived another 23 years, she would almost certainly have called at the re-established port of singapore.
"her incredibly diverse cargo provides great insights into the type of goods that would have been exchanged and purchased by the new inhabitants of this fledgling city. "
an assortment of articles retrieved from a may 22 dive include blue-and-white porcelain jarlets (back) and glass beads (on bowl).
st photo: gin tay
the two historical shipwrecks are the first to be found within singapore's waters, and will contribute to a better understanding of the nation's maritime past.
as there were no claims to the wrecks and their artefacts at the end of the stipulated notice period of a month, they have been claimed by singapore.
although it is very likely there are more wrecks on the seabed in singapore's waters, some of these have been covered by reclamation, while heavy maritime traffic in the singapore strait makes locating others a hazard.
nhb's director of heritage research and assessment yeo kirk siang said: "as an island that has been serving as the gateway to asia for centuries, singapore today is the legacy of our rich maritime heritage.
in a storage facility, encrustations are removed from an artefact.
iseas yusof ishak institute
"we will continue to research the significance of the artefacts and find ways to promote the knowledge, so as to enable more people to learn about them and singapore's maritime history.
"nhb plans to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year, while iseas will likely publish findings progressively in reports and research papers.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
hong kong (reuters, bloomberg) five hundred hong kong police officers sifted through reporters' computers and notebooks at pro-democracy tabloid apple daily on thursday (june 17), the first case in which authorities have cited media articles as potentially violating the national security law.
around dawn, police arrested five executives of the newspaper, and officers were later seen sitting at computers in the newsroom after entering with a warrant to seize journalistic materials.
the raid is the latest blow to media tycoon jimmy lai, the tabloid's owner and a staunch beijing critic, whose assets have been seized under the security law and who is serving prison sentences for taking part in illegal assemblies.
police said the warrant was aimed at gathering evidence, including from reporters' phones and computers, raising alarm about media freedoms.
police said the tabloid published dozens of reports dating back to 2019 that may have breached the security law, without saying when the most recent articles in question were.
the legislation is not retrospective but prosecutors can use actions from before its implementation as evidence.
"the nature of the articles is very simple: inciting, requesting foreign countries to impose sanctions on hong kong and the people's republic of china.
very straightforward," senior superintendent li kwai-wah told reporters outside the paper's headquarters.
mr li said police have also frozen hk$18 million (s$3.
1 million) of assets owned by three companies linked to apple daily and that the raid was not targeted at the media industry as a whole.
"this is a blatant attack on the editorial side of apple daily," mr mark simon, an adviser to lai who is outside hong kong, told reuters.
"they're arresting the top editorial folks.
"it was the second time police have raided the apple daily headquarters; 200 officers went in last year to arrest lai on suspicion of colluding with foreign forces.
lai has been in detention since december, denied bail under the security law and serving several sentences for taking part in some unauthorised rallies, including during the global financial hub's mass pro-democracy protests in 2019.  the security law was beijing's first major move to set china's most restive city on an authoritarian path.
it punishes anything beijing deems as subversion, secessionism, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in prison.
national security police said in a statement that five directors of a company had been arrested on suspicion of collusion with a foreign country or with external elements.
hong kong police do not name arrestees.
apple daily said editor-in-chief ryan law, chief executive officer cheung kim-hung, chief operating officer chow tat-kuen, deputy chief editor chan puiman and chief executive editor cheung chi-wai had all been arrested in morning raids.
pictures published by apple daily showed police sitting at reporters' desks and using their computers.
a person streaming a live feed for apple daily's facebook page said the building was cordoned off and reporters were prevented from accessing certain floors or getting their equipment or notebooks.
chief editor law was seen walking in handcuffs, flanked by police officers.
the apple daily paper's general news desk told reporters in a text message seen by reuters to carry on with their assignments outside the building for the time being.
"this fits into the pattern over the past year of the government using the national security law to target its top critics," said mr tom kellogg, the executive director of the georgetown centre for asian law.
police officers unload outside the headquarters of the apple daily newspaper and its publisher next digital ltd.  in hong kong, on june 17, 2021.  photo: bloomberg
"this is a serious blow to press freedom in hong kong, and a direct attack on the journalistic work of apple daily," he added.
"whereas prior attacks on apple have focused on jimmy lai's own advocacy, these arrests are – for the first time – focused on apple daily's journalistic output.
"the move is the latest blow to apple daily after authorities last month directed jailed tycoon lai's shares in next digital, publisher of the newspaper, to be frozen.
trading in the company's stock on the hong kong bourse was suspended on thursday.
asked how long he thinks the newspaper can survive, mr simon said: "it's not up to us.
it's up to them.
there's 100 police officers in our newsroom.
they decide, not us.
"the arrests on thursday are likely to reignite ongoing concerns about whether hong kong still retains the constitutionally-guaranteed freedom of speech that has led numerous international news organisations to establish regional headquarters in the finance hub.
"hong kong has been left with little free speech under the national security law, which is really aimed at silencing all dissent," said associate professor victoria hui from the university of notre dame.
"beijing has reined in hong kong and will continue to take whatever it takes to silence any dissenting voices.
"in an e-mail sent to readers on wednesday, mr law, the now-arrested apple daily editor, wrote that hong kong media were operating under "more and more laws restricting freedom of the press".
but he vowed the newspaper would carry on reporting.
a police vechie is seen outside the headquarters of apple daily and next media in hong kong, on june 17, 2021.  photo: reuters
"is the national security law the biggest crisis of apple daily?"
he asked, noting that identifying the government's "red lines" were becoming increasingly important.
"no matter how great the pressure is, we will definitely be able to stand up," he added.
"at the end of the tunnel, there must be light.
"apple daily is an unapologetic tabloid that mixes pro-democracy discourse with celebrity gossip and investigations of those in power and is popular in hong kong.
in may, reuters reported that hong kong's security chief sent letters to lai and branches of hsbc and citibank threatening up to seven years in jail for any dealings with the billionaire's accounts in the city.
lai's assets were also frozen under the same law.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
reuters -blackstone group inc is nearing a deal to buy office developer soho china ltd in what would be its biggest real estate investment in the asian country, bloomberg news reported https://www.
bloomberg.
com/news/articles/2021-06-16/blackstone-said-to-near-3-billion-deal-for-developer-soho-china?utm_content=business&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter&cmpid=socialflow-twitter-business&utm_campaign=socialflow-organic&sref=zoyerlu1 on tuesday, citing people familiar with the matter.
hong kong-listed soho china could be valued at about us$3 billion in the deal that could be announced as soon as this week, the report said.
blackstone declined to comment, while soho china did not immediately respond to a reuters request for comment.
the report comes a day after soho china's shares were halted for trading at the company's request, pending an announcement under hong kong's code on takeovers and mergers.
the company has a market value of hkus$19.
76 billion (us$2.
55 billion) as of its stock's last close, according to refinitiv data.
soho china is 64per cent owned by the husband-wife team of chairman pan shiyi and chief executive officer zhang xin.
founded in 1995 by pan and zhang, soho china went public in hong kong in 2007 and is well-known for its futuristic office buildings in the mainland.
it has been scouting buyers for its prime commercial property assets as the founders looked to shift their focus to overseas markets.
(us$1 = 7.
7612 hong kong dollars)(reporting by derek francis in bengaluru; editing by aditya soni)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: singapore's non-oil domestic exports (nodx) rose at a faster pace of 8.
8 per cent in may, compared to the 6 per cent growth recorded in the previous month.
growth was mainly due to non-electronics, though electronics also saw an increase, according to data released by enterprise singapore (esg) on thursday (jun 17).
non-electronic nodx increased 8.
1 per cent in may, up from 4.
7 per cent in the previous month.
the increase in non-electronics was driven by specialised machinery, which rose 58 per cent, in line with robust global semiconductor demand, said esg.
this was followed by petrochemicals, which expanded 56 per cent after declining amid a global downcycle, and primary chemicals, which grew 97 per cent from a low base a year ago.
electronics inched up slightly in may at 11 per cent, following a 10.
9 per cent growth in the previous month.
integrated circuits, telecommunications equipment and diodes and transistors contributed the most to this growth, increasing by 5.
8 per cent, 52.
3 per cent and 53.
9 per cent respectively.
on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, nodx decreased by 0.
1 per cent in may, following the previous month's 8.
8 per cent.
electronics exports grew, while non-electronics declined, esg added.
on a seasonally adjusted basis, the level of nodx remained at s$15.
4 billion, similar to the previous month.
exports by countrynodx to the top markets as a whole rose in may, though exports to the us, japan and the eu declined.
the largest contributors to this increase were china, hong kong and malaysia.
exports to china grew 36.
9 per cent due to specialised machinery, petrochemicals and disk media products.
exports to hong kong expanded by 30.
2 per cent, due to integrated circuits, non-electric engines and motors, as well as telecommunications equipment.
shipments to malaysia rose by 27.
1 per cent, due to petrochemicals, specialised machinery and diodes and transistors.
exports to emerging markets also grew by 41.
4 per cent, mainly due to south asia, cambodia, laos, myanmar and vietnam, as well as the middle east.
other trade indicatorsnon-oil re-exports grew at a slower pace of 31.
6 per cent in may from a low base a year ago, following the 34.
3 per cent in april, with growth in both electronics and non-electronics.
the top contributors were exports to hong kong, china and malaysia.
total trade expanded 30.
9 per cent in may on a year-on-year basis, extending the 26.
3 per cent growth in the previous month.
both imports and exports increased, by 32.
2 per cent and 29.
8 per cent respectively.
however, total trade declined on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, reaching s$95 billion in may, lower than the previous month's s$95.
8 billion.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
submitted by stomper randythis story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
this story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
a 28-year-old man was arrested over a fight in hougang that left another man injured.
in response to a stomp query, the police said they were alerted to a case of voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon at block 702 hougang avenue 2 on june 9, at 12.
16am.
"a 30-year-old man was conscious when taken to hospital," they added.
"a 28-year-old man was arrested in relation to the case.
"stomper randy shared photos of the incident that were posted on facebook.
according to shin min daily news, the altercation occurred at a carpark, near a void deck where a funeral wake was taking place.
residents reported hearing the two men, who are acquainted, in a loud argument.
the suspect had allegedly rushed into the void deck and asked the mourning family if he could 'borrow' a pair of scissors that was on a table.
despite their refusal, the suspect took the scissors and went back to the carpark, where the stabbing took place.
police were then called.
a resident in the vicinity, ms li, said that the assailant continued to rain blows on his victim, who had fallen to the ground.
the suspect was seen picking up a bamboo pole and waving it in the middle of the road before he fled, reported shin min.
he was subsequently arrested after the police traced his whereabouts.
police investigations are ongoing.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.


      jaclyn diaz
    

                virgin australia was one of several major companies to be hit with technical issues thursday that impacted websites and mobile applications for airlines, banks and other corporations.
rick rycroft/ap
                    
                
hide caption
virgin australia was one of several major companies to be hit with technical issues thursday that impacted websites and mobile applications for airlines, banks and other corporations.
several major companies, financial institutions and airlines from the u. s.  to australia and hong kong suffered brief online outages thursday due to a third party it provider.
the outage appeared to impact each company's website and mobile applications.
internet monitoring websites including thousandeyes and downdetector.
com showed disruptions across the world.
in australia, major banks and airlines were hit by the outage, impacting business the middle of the day.
this all comes a week after a similar major outage at the cloud service company fastly.
on june 8, dozens of sites including the new york times, cnn, some amazon sites, twitch, reddit, the guardian, and the u. k.  government's home page were impacted.
it took at least an hour for australia's commonwealth bank to start to see services return to normal thursday after its tech issues.
the bank tweeted it was "urgently investigating the outage" that impacted several of its services.
virgin australia, an airline, reported its website and "guest contact centre" were impacted.
the company said an issue with the "akamai content delivery system" was to blame for the service problems across the world.
"virgin australia was one of many organisations to experience an outage with the akamai content delivery system today and we are working with them to ensure that necessary measures are taken to prevent these outages from reoccurring," the company said in a statement.
akamai is a third-party system used for it network authentication for the airline.
akamai technologies didn't immediately respond to npr's request for comment.
major airlines in the u. s. , including delta, american, southwest and united, experienced outages at around 1 a. m.  est.
financial institutions, discover and navy federal credit union also suffered tech issues.
hong kong's stock exchange, one of the largest in the world, was also impacted by the technical problems in the middle of the day.
npr thanks our sponsorsbecome an npr sponsor
during the muslim holy month of ramadan, a time traditionally dedicated for peace, reconciliation and forgiveness, hamas terrorists fired around 4,000 rockets from gaza, directed at innocent civilians in israel.
twelve people fell victim to these attacks.
among them were jews and muslims, women and children.
more than 70 per cent of israel's population was living under the shadow of hundreds of rockets every day.
depending on their distance from gaza, they had between 15 seconds to one minute to find shelter.
just imagine 70 per cent of indians living that kind of life for two weeks.
surely, india, like every other country, and like israel, would have exercised its legal right to defend its citizens from terror.
the reason for sharing these facts — plain numbers are often used to blame israel for allegedly committing war crimes by punitively attacking gaza without caring for civilian casualties.
every war is tragic.
every person's death is a world lost.
it's sad when children die in such armed conflicts.
one common misconception in public perception relating to armed conflicts is the term "proportionality".
the number of casualties on each side is compared in order to deduce which side used force disproportionately.
from a legal standpoint, this notion is completely legally flawed, and indeed, illogical.
the universally accepted principle of proportionality is defined as the obligation to refrain from any attack which may be expected to cause incidental loss or injuries to civilians, or damage to civilian objects.
the proportionality principle essentially means that before every military strike, the military commanders must assess two factors.
first, they must examine the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated from an attack, when naturally, the neutralisation of some targets would have a higher advantage than others.
first, in order to offer such an advantage, the target must be a military one, such as a weapons depot, a command and control centre or the adversary's armed forces.
importantly, a seemingly civilian object, used by the adversary for military purposes may be considered a lawful target.
second, the commanders must assess, based on reasonably available information at the time of the attack, the expected incidental loss of civilian life or property (collateral damage).
the military commander assesses how many civilians, if any, will be present in the area of the planned attack.
then, they assess the extent of the expected damage to civilian property, including the indirect damage that is to be accounted for, as long as it is reasonably expected.
lastly, the military commander must implement all feasible precautions to mitigate harm to civilians and civilian objects.
based on these assessments, the commander must balance these two components and decide whether to carry out the attack.
if the assessment leads to the conclusion that the expected damage to civilians or civilian objects is deemed excessive in relation to the anticipated military advantage, the attack would be unlawful.
how is this principle of proportionality affected when instead of protecting its civilians, hamas intentionally conducts its military activity from within densely populated areas?
to be more precise, how is israel expected to protect its major cities from hamas rockets, when these rockets are developed, built and launched from within the gazan civilian population?the law of armed conflict clearly states that when civilian presence is used to shield military objectives from attacks, that presence does not grant the target immunity.
that is, when hamas commits the double war crime of attacking israeli children, schools and airports from within its own civilian population, the analysis of the situation would be distorted if hamas' criminal behaviour is not taken into account.
despite hamas's blatant disregard for the law or its citizen's wellbeing, israel does everything feasible in order to prevent or at least minimise the harm to the palestinian civilian population, often at the cost of operational advantage.
in doing so, israel employs precautions that exceed the requirements of international law, as well as the practices commonly employed by advanced militaries of western states.
fighting an enemy that deliberately abuses the law of armed conflict in the most cynical way creates grave challenges for israeli soldiers.
nevertheless, israeli commanders strictly apply international law, including the principle of proportionality in every military action.
one must ask why hamas uses its own population as human shields?
the answer brings us back to the beginning of this article — the miscomprehension of the concept of proportionality, and the knee-jerk reaction that ignores the question who put gazan civilians in danger in the first place?
in other words, hamas pays no price for its war crimes against its own civilians, and, indeed, often israel is wrongfully blamed by the very same terrorist organisation.
this situation provides an incentive to hamas to continue with its heinous practices.
hamas is internationally recognised as a radical islamic terror organisation.
its ultimate goal, which is clearly specified in its charter, is not to establish a palestinian state, but rather to destroy israel.
in 2006, when hamas won elections in palestinian territories, they refused to respect the existing written agreements between israel and the palestinian leadership, committing to non-violent dialogue and recognition of israel.
hamas forcefully and violently seized power in gaza and diverted billions of dollars of aid meant for building schools, hospitals and civic amenities to build terror tunnels and rockets meant for destroying israel.
hamas is committing a double war crime — deliberately targeting israeli civilians and endangering gazan civilians by using them as human shields.
at the same time, hamas is engaged in a misinformation campaign to provoke palestinians and israeli arabs.
the absurdness of their propaganda is obvious: israel has normalised relations with five muslim countries in the last one year, adding to its historic peace agreements with egypt and jordan.
israel's commitment to peace is clear to countries like sudan, morocco, uae, bahrain and others.
let's hope it will be the same also for our immediate neighbours, the palestinians.
this article first appeared in the print edition on june 17, 2021 under the title 'an enemy like hamas'.
the writer is consul general of israel, mumbai.
this article was written before the naftali bennett government took office in israel📣 the indian express is now on telegram.
click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlinesfor all the latest opinion news, download indian express app.
bangkok: burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones myanmar's anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing a life on the run.
myanmar has been in turmoil since the armed forces ousted civilian leader aung san suu kyi in february, plunging the country back under military rule after a 10-year experiment with democracy.
the power grab triggered a massive uprising which the junta has sought to quell with mass arrests and bloody crackdowns.
some like longtime activist thinzar shunlei yi had always known they might have to leave their home and family in order to keep up their battle against the regime.
"it's something i expected in my life as an activist," she told afp by phone from a hidden location.
the 29-year-old is among the hundreds of social media-savvy fugitive social influencers, celebrities, activists and journalists wanted by the junta for disseminating information that "causes fear".
"when (the coup) happened, we found that many people were on the run," she said.
"we didn't expect that we would have an uprising like this and ordinary people would become protesters and activists.
"but for ko ko not his real name the life of a fugitive was something much harder to imagine.
just months ago he was working full-time at a government hospital on myanmar's covid-19 response.
"everything has changed," said the 30-year-old doctor, who now organises covert tele-medicine consultations for anti-coup protesters too afraid to go to military hospitals.
moving frequently to avoid arrest, ko ko said he "stopped counting the days" after myanmar's thingyan new year festival in april a period usually spent celebrating with family.
always on guardmyanmar's medical workers were among the first to join a nationwide anti-junta movement, which grew to bring hundreds of thousands to the streets.
by march, ko ko was training civilians to give first aid as the junta crackdown on dissent grew bloodier.
but increasing raids on makeshift trauma centres and mass arrests of healthcare workers were a wake-up call.
"if they found me, what would they do to my family?"
he recalled thinking.
two days after armed forces day in march  the single deadliest day since the coup, with more than 100 people killed across the country ko ko decided to leave his wife and parents.
after two weeks slipping furtively from house to house, he fled to territory controlled by a rebel group near the border with thailand.
always on alert, he carries a burner phone with a fake facebook account in case authorities stop him.
"every minute that i hear a car stop out front or if there's a loud voice, i always go out and check," he told afp.
he is currently working to source supplies for a makeshift hospital he and other doctors are setting up a vast departure from his life just four months earlier.
"this is our duty"more than 850 people have been killed since the coup while thousands languish behind bars, according to a local monitoring group.
"it's a nightmare," said musician ko thein a pseudonym who grew in prominence for his vitriolic facebook posts about the military after it ousted aung san suu kyi's government.
he had stubbornly refused to go into hiding despite weeks of warnings from friends.
but when his name was broadcast on the nightly state-run tv news in early april, he immediately packed a bag, said farewell to his sister, and stole away from the back door of his apartment building.
"i didn't have a chance to say goodbye to my dog.
he died on may 4," he said, speaking to afp from an undisclosed location.
still, he continues to share information on facebook and connect local civilian groups with a shadow government working to oust the junta.
"i never feel regret about posting things.
this is our duty as citizens of myanmar," ko thein said, though he admits he misses his family.
even for a seasoned activist like thinzar shunlei yi, life on the run can be isolating, and monitoring the news can be "mentally draining".
"but it also gives us strength because many people have suffered and sacrificed their lives," she said.
"we need to keep moving, no matter what.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
mandatory covid-19 testing started at 10am yesterday for 85 stallholders at block 116 bukit merah view.
a temporary site was set up at block 125a for this.
the testing follows the ministry of health's (moh) announcement on sunday that a new cluster had formed at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
all 182 stalls there were closed from sunday for cleaning until today.
the workers and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 have been quarantined and will be swabbed.
moh said all workers and tenants who had worked in the nearby 116 bukit merah view from may 25 are also being tested for covid-19 "to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission".
most of those who were tested at the temporary site said they are not worried about getting covid-19.
ms theresa neo, 52, who works in a nail salon at block 116, said: "i'm fully vaccinated so i'm not worried.
"she added that the salon would remain open as it had not been instructed to close.
a teochew porridge food stallholder at block 116 who wanted to be known only as mr than, 50, said he received a text message informing him that he should get tested.
he came out of the temporary testing site teary-eyed but said it was a painless process.
"it's very normal now to get tested.
.
.
i'm not worried about getting covid-19.
"he said he would be returning to work, adding: "we need to earn money, what to do?
"free testing is also being offered to residents and members of the public who visited either 115 bukit merah view market and food centre or shops at 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12. the temporary testing site at block 125a was not open to the public yesterday, but it will be from today to thursday after tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira put in a request to moh.
some residents who went to block 125a yesterday were unhappy when they were turned away.
ms pereira said in a facebook post yesterday: "many residents had approached me to ask for this arrangement, as there are many elderly in our area, and this would be more convenient for them.
"i have highlighted this feedback to moh, and i am very grateful to (all) for making this possible for the convenience of our residents.
mr wang da feng, 70, made the trip down to the temporary testing site yesterday with his 71-year-old wife, but both were turned away.
they visit the block 115 market and food centre every day.
the retiree, who lives in telok blangah crescent, said: "we both felt a bit unwell, and my wife started coughing last night so we wanted to get tested.
it's a wasted trip today, but it's okay, we will just come back tomorrow.
"mr chia foo keng, 65, who lives at block 117 bukit merah view, also said he visits the market every day.
"i'm fully vaccinated, but i still feel it's better to get tested.
who knows whether i have covid-19 or not?"
said mr chia, a fishmonger at a market in ang mo kio.
ms pereira told st that there are residents who are worried about the new cluster.
"this is especially so as there are many elderly living in the area, and their children have also written to me as they are worried," she said.
she has advised them to minimise interaction, monitor their health and see a doctor immediately if necessary, she added.
the 115 bukit merah view market and food centre cluster now has 16 cases, after 10 more cases were linked to it yesterday.
some of the cases detected so far are food stall vendors or sundry shop workers at the market and food centre.
their ages range from the 60s to the 80s.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
mr muhammad nazlan, 34, was resting at home on sunday after getting his second covid-19 vaccination shot when he heard his 10-year-old daughter screaming for help from outside their lorong 5 toa payoh flat.
from his ground-floor unit in block 63, the pest control technician saw his son had collapsed against a lamp post at the nearby fitness corner.
muhammad rifqy, 14, had been playing football with a friend from the neighbourhood near the fitness corner when the ball went astray.
running towards the fitness corner to retrieve the ball, rifqy apparently reached out towards a lamp post to break a fall and received a shock.
his friend, who tried to help him, also received a shock.
mr nazlan, who is asthmatic, immediately rushed to help his elder son and also felt a shock.
"my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless," he said.
"i also felt another two shocks: one in my hand and the other in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away and my leg to gently kick his leg away from the lamp post as it was entangled with the post.
""all i could think of was: if he dies, i will also die with him.
"mr nazlan added: "the other boy touched my son but ran away as soon as he got a shock.
"he said he did not know who the boy was or exactly where he lived, but that rifqy had met him about three days earlier while playing in the area.
mr nazlan also has a younger son, aged five.
he said his wife rushed forward to save their son too, but was held back by mr nazlan's close friend, mr khairul anuar, 36.
"i had to hold her back to prevent a tragedy from happening," said mr khairul, who is a delivery rider.
he also said that rifqy's muscles looked tense from the shock.
"he was such a happy boy who loved to play pranks, but he has been so traumatised after the shock," said mr khairul.
"he can only speak with one or two words at a time now.
"both boys were sent to kk women's and children's hospital on sunday.
rifqy remains in hospital with electrical burns to his right hand and an elevated muscle enzyme count, an indication of muscle injury.
his friend was discharged on monday afternoon.
said mr nazlan: "the doctor told us that he has to be warded until his muscle enzyme count stabilises or goes lower, as there is a risk of heart and kidney problems.
"electrical engineer simon lee told the straits times that cable insulation or lighting components in the lamp post may have been behind the incident.
"electric current can leak out and flow through the exposed metallic part of the lamp post which is in contact with the cable within the lamp post," said mr lee, who is chairman of the mechanical and electrical engineering technical committee at the institution of engineers, singapore.
mr lee said bystanders trying to help a person experiencing an electric shock should not touch the victim directly, as they may also get electrocuted.
instead, they should use a dry cloth or an insulated object to pull the person away from the source of shock.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
ryan law among five directors detained under national security legislation imposed by beijingfirst published on wed 16 jun 2021 21.
14 edthong kong's national security police have arrested the editor-in-chief and four other directors of the apple daily newspaper in early morning raids involving hundreds of officers, over their role in the publication of dozens of articles alleged to be part of a conspiracy to collude with foreign forces.
the city's security chief, john lee, accused those arrested of using "journalistic work as a tool to endanger national security", and issued a chilling warning to residents and other media.
"normal journalists are different from these people," lee said.
"please keep a distance from them.
"the police force's national security department said the five had been arrested on suspicion of collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security, through articles which police said called for sanctions to be imposed on hong kong and mainland china.
all were arrested at their homes, at around 7am.
police also searched apple daily's newsroom and its offices, saying the warrant covered "the power of searching and seizure of journalistic materials".
"the operation, still ongoing, aims at gathering evidence for a case of suspected contravention of the national security law," it said.
those arrested were named by apple daily as editor-in-chief, ryan law; the chief executive officer, cheung kim-hung; the chief operating officer, chow tat-kuen; the deputy chief editor, chan puiman; and the chief executive editor, cheung chi-wai.
police also froze hk$18m (us $2.
3m) in assets of three companies, apple daily limited, apple daily printing limited and ad internet limited.
parent company, next digital, announced the suspension of trading in its shares before markets opened on thursday.
the police operation is a significant escalation in the government's moves to stifle hong kong's press, of which the pro-democracy tabloid was widely considered to be a primary target.
senior superintendent steve li kwai-wah, the head of the police's national security division, said there was "very strong evidence that the questionable articles played a very crucial part in the conspiracy, which provided ammunition for foreign countries, institutions and organisations to impose sanctions", adding that those arrested played "a very important role" in their publication.
the articles reportedly date back to 2019.  authorities have made repeated assurances since the implementation of the controversial and wide-ranging national security law in june 2020 that it was not retroactive.
li said the police valued freedom of the press.
"we are not targeting the media, but only an organisation that is allegedly violating article 29 of the national security law. "
he warned apple daily staff not to reoffend, and other journalists not to bring suspicion upon themselves, according to the hong kong free press.
in a press conference on thursday afternoon, lee issued a further warning to the city's press to distance themselves from their apple daily colleagues.
"you should not collude with these perpetrators.
do not play cahoots with them, otherwise you will pay a hefty price.
distance yourself from them otherwise all you will be left with are regrets," he said.
lee refused to say what form the offending articles took – news reports or opinion – or to answer long-running concerns over how the national security law applies to media.
"do your journalistic work as freely as you like in accordance with the law, provided you do not conspire or have any intention to break hong kong law, and certainly not the hong kong national security law," he said.
the owner of the paper, pro-democracy campaigner and tycoon jimmy lai, has been in jail since late last year on charges relating to the 2019 protests and allegations of national security offences.
apple daily livestreamed the police raid on the office, which showed officers leading law into the building, apparently with his hands tied behind his back.
most employees weren't at work yet, but those there were moved to the building's canteen on another floor, away from the search of the newsroom.
the paper published a photo of a police officer searching through a reporter's computer.
apple daily said 38 journalists' computers were seized.
"this is the worst of times in hong kong," said apple daily in an open letter to its readers.
it said the city's press freedom was "hanging by a thread", but it vowed to stand tall and had "no regrets".
the staff union said it was "enraged" by the arrests, and described the court decision to grant a warrant seizing journalistic materials as "regrettable".
"as difficult as the circumstances may be, we will carry on with our jobs with the aim to publish our papers as normal tomorrow.
"beijing's liaison office in hong kong supported the arrests, saying: "press freedom is not a shield for unlawful acts".
the national security law was imposed by beijing, with the hong kong government's blessing, in june last year, and has since led to the arrests of more than 100 individuals, including 54 over the holding of democratic primary polls, an informal pre-election event often held by political parties of all stripes.
politicians and activists were among those arrested, and most were denied bail.
lai is among the most high-profile of those arrested under the law.
he was charged a third time under the law in april, accused of foreign collusion in relation to activist andy li's attempt to flee to taiwan by boat last year.
his assets were also frozen.
lai has been a vocal opponent of the crackdown on the pro-democracy movement, and apple daily has produced extensive critical journalism.
hong kong's police commissioner has accused apple daily of creating hatred and dividing society, while pro-beijing media has called for it to be shut down.
thursday marked the second raid on its newsroom.
earlier this month, law told agence france-presse he was facing "the greatest crisis since i took up the post over three years ago".
the raids were condemned by journalism and human rights groups.
steven butler, asia program coordinator of the committee to protect journalists, said the arrests destroyed "any remaining fiction that hong kong supports freedom of the press".
"china, which controls hong kong, may be able to eliminate the paper, which it sees as an annoying critic, but only at a steep price to be paid by the people of hong kong, who had enjoyed decades of free access to information.
"taiwan's foreign minister, joseph wu, said he was "out of words to describe my anger and sadness".
"authoritarianism is waging a brutal war on apple daily, a desperately endangered symbol of freedom in hong kong. "
market anticipation for the wednesday meeting of the federal reserve's policy-making open market committee was higher than usual, given that it took place shortly after the release of new data showing that inflation continues to surge.
consumer prices were up 5 percent in may relative to may 2020, the fastest rate of increase since august 2008.  even leaving out volatile food and energy prices, "core" inflation was up 3.
8 percent, which was the fastest increase for that indicator since june 1992.  long dormant as a risk factor in the u. s.  and global economies, inflation now is being taken more seriously than at any time in more than 40 years.
the question on everyone's mind was: would the fed react to the new numbers by adjusting the easy-money stance it adopted in response to the pandemic-induced economic collapse of a year ago?
the central bank, and its chair, jerome h.  powell, answered "no," albeit with a caveat.
though the fed raised its own forecast of 2021 annual inflation a full percentage point over its march estimate, to 3.
4 percent, there will be no "taper" of its $120 billion per month bond-buying program, until the fed sees what mr.  powell called "substantial further progress" toward full employment and its inflation goal, which is a 2 percent annual average over time.
and there will be no short-term increase in the fed's key interest rate, which is currently set at zero.
that's where the caveat came in: the fed's board published non-binding forecasts that point to the need for at least one rate increase in 2023, as opposed to 2024 after its march meeting.
hypothetical as they still are, these earlier rate hikes — which generally make stocks less attractive to investors — would come too soon for wall street's taste, and the market fell after the fed meeting.
yet they would come too late for skeptics of the fed's posture, who note that it is getting hard to square with the central bank's own acknowledgement that inflation is running faster than it thought just three months ago.
mohamed a.  el-erian, now at cambridge university, tweeted that a "possible policy mistake" by the fed ranks with vaccine-resistant covid virus variants as a risk to the global economy.
the fed is sticking to its view that much inflationary pressure comes from "transitory" effects related to the post-pandemic reopening, such as a surge of consumer and government spending while many sectors of the economy are still struggling to ramp up production.
mr.  powell said he sees "no sign" that long-term inflation expectations are getting out of hand.
and he's got data to back him up, such as a recent moderation in lumber prices and persistently low interest rates on 10-year treasury notes.
mr.  powell is obviously not indifferent to the threat of uncontrolled inflation, a fact he usefully reiterated wednesday.
equally clearly, he believes that the bigger risks to prosperity lie in trying to cool the economy — which is what inflation-fighting requires — while job creation and wage increases are still heating up.
if and when the chair's assessment proves valid, the american people will owe him a debt of gratitude.
if not — he'll own that, too.
read more:lawrence h.  summers: the inflation risk is realhenry olsen: the fed doesn't want you to worry about inflation.
you should.
catherine rampell: don't freak out about inflation yetpaul waldman: how inflation fears are complicating biden's political futuregeorge f.  will: the fed has an irresistible equity itchthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
seoul, june 16  digital sex crime is now so pervasive in south korea that the fear of it is affecting the quality of life for women and girls, with many victims saying they had considered suicide or leaving the country, a human rights watchdog said on wednesday (june 16).
south korea has become the global epicentre of spycam the use of tiny, hidden cameras to film victims naked, urinating or having sex.
other cases have involved intimate photos being leaked without permission, or sex abuse such as rapes captured on camera and the videos shared online.
victims are often traumatised further and become "immersed in the abuse" by encounters with police and other justice officials, and by the expectation that they should gather evidence and monitor the internet for new appearances of images of themselves, us-based human rights watch (hrw) said in a report.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared, in south korea that they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," heather barr, the report's author, said in a statement.
"women and girls told us they avoided using public toilets and felt anxious about hidden cameras in public and even in their homes.
an alarming number of survivors of digital sex crimes said they had considered suicide.
"the report, based on 38 interviews and an online survey, said sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017, according to data from the korean institute of criminology.
also read: seoul police to probe reporters for sharing spycam footage of sexual assault victimssouth korean president moon jae-in has called for police to investigate the growing number of sexual abuse claims, including recently among members of the military.
[[nid:481868]]last year, police broke up an online network that lured dozens of women and underage girls into what authorities have called "virtual enslavement" by blackmailing them into sending increasingly degrading and sometimes violent sexual imagery of themselves.
hrw said the government needs to do more by increasing legal penalties for convicted offenders, boosting the number of women among the police, prosecutors, and judges, and changing broader gender inequality that normalies the consumption of non-consensual images.
in 2019, prosecutors dropped 43.
5 per cent of digital sex crime cases compared to 27.
7 per cent of homicide cases and 19 per cent of robbery cases, though the sex crime cases that were prosecuted usually ended in a conviction, the report said.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing (bloomberg) chinese president xi jinping is renewing his years-long push to achieve technology self-sufficiency by tapping a top deputy to shepherd a key initiative aimed at helping domestic chipmakers overcome us sanctions.
mr liu he, mr xi's economic czar whose sprawling portfolio spans trade to finance and technology, has been tapped to spearhead the development of so-called third-generation chip development and capabilities and is leading the formulation of a series of financial and policy supports for the technology, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
it's a nascent field that relies on newer materials and gear beyond traditional silicon and is currently an arena where no company or nation yet dominates, offering beijing one of its best chances to sidestep the hurdles slapped on its chipmaking industry by the us and its allies.
the sanctions, which emerged during mr donald trump's presidency, have already smothered huawei technologies co's smartphone business and will impede longer-term efforts by chipmakers from huawei's hisilicon to semiconductor manufacturing international corp to migrate toward more advanced wafer fabrication technologies, threatening china's technological ambitions.
"china is the world's largest user of chips, so supply chain security is of high priority," said mr gu wenjun, chief analyst at research firm icwise.
"it's not possible for any country to control the entire supply chain, but a country's effort is definitely stronger than a single company.
"the involvement of one of mr xi's most-trusted lieutenants in china's chip efforts highlights the importance accorded by beijing to the initiative, which is gaining urgency as rivals from the us to japan and south korea scramble to shore up their own industries.
the chinese president has long called upon his harvard-educated adviser to tackle matters of top national priority, making him the chief representative in trade negotiations with the us as well as chairman of the financial stability and development committee, where mr liu leads the charge to curb risks in the nation's us$5 trillion (s$6.
68 trillion) plus financial sector.
in may, mr liu spearheaded a meeting of the technology task force that discussed ways to grow next-generation semiconductor technologies, according to a government statement.
the 69-year-old vice-premier, who has led the country's technology reform task force since 2018, is also overseeing projects that could lead to breakthroughs in traditional chipmaking, including the development of china's own chip design software and extreme ultraviolet lithography machines, one of the people said, asking not to be identified as they weren't authorized to speak to media.
the state council and the ministry of industry and information technology didn't respond to faxed requests for comment.
during trade negotiations with the trump administration, mr liu emerged as one of the most visible advocates of beijing's agenda.
he's known mr xi since childhood both are sons of veteran communist party leaders and were among masses of young people dispatched to work in impoverished rural areas during the cultural revolution.
now, liu is leading the charge to reform the tech sector, which was identified in china's latest five-year economic plan as a key strategic area in which the "whole nation system" should be used to mobilise any necessary resources.
first introduced under mao zedong to help the then-fledgling communist china industrialize, the approach was crucial to helping beijing attain a number of top national priorities, from developing its first atomic bomb in the early 1960s to achieving olympic sporting success.
after that it was largely set aside as officials shifted to focus on economic growth.
but following a series of us sanctions that exposed the vulnerabilities of china's chip capabilities, mr xi is once again reactivating the mechanism to achieve breakthroughs in advanced chip development and manufacturing.
about a trillion dollars of government funding have been set aside under the technology initiative, part of which will be used by central and local governments to jointly invest in a series of third-generation chip projects, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
top chipmakers and research institutes have submitted proposals to the ministries of science and information technology, all vying for a place in the national programme and a share of the financing.
the ministry of science and technology is slated to inject 400 million yuan (s$83.
23 million) into some key "strategic electronics materials" including third-generation chips, according to a government document.
even moonshot chip programmes are in line for government funding.
the state-backed national natural science foundation of china has pledged financial support for dozens of exploratory research programmes, ranging from ultra-low power consumption to the development of a flexible chip that can collect and transmit nerve signals, as beijing seeks to overcome "computing bottlenecks" when moore's law the industry standard for predicting the pace of chip improvements finally stops working.
several subsidiaries of china electronics technology group corp and china railway construction corp organisations already sanctioned by the u. s.  are among the state-backed firms backing the effort, one of the people said.
another government-linked giant, china electronics corp, is one of the leaders in third-generation chip development, thanks to its investment in smaller firms including cec semiconductor co. using its own in-house technology, cec semiconductor makes silicone carbide-based power devices that can work at 200 deg c for a number of key industries from telecommunications to electric cars reducing china's reliance on overseas suppliers such as infineon technologies ag, rohm co and cree inc. the task of coordinating that sprawling programme now falls to mr liu, who has to keep track of the relevant resources and drive the national strategy to help china achieve chip independence.
"for our country, technology and innovation is not just a matter of growth," mr liu told a three-story auditorium packed with china's top scientists in a separate meeting in may.
"it's also a matter of survival.
"mr xi is counting on his lieutenant to help china fend off growing threats from the us, which is seeking to take back chip industry supremacy.
under the trump administration, sanctions were slapped on chinese giants from huawei to smic, cutting off their access to american technology and equipment crucial to designing and making advanced logic chips.
president joe biden has also laid out a us $52 billion plan to bolster domestic chip manufacturing, while calling on allies to join export controls aimed at curbing beijing's drive toward technology self-sufficiency.
rival powerhouse nations like south korea and leading corporations such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co.  have also responded with their own spending plans, fuelling the race to take the lead in the sector.
with traditional chipmaking facing a series of challenges from technology development to heavy capital investment, third-generation chips which use compounds such as gallium nitride and silicon carbide to significantly improve the performance of semiconductors that power a wide range of industries and products may offer china its best chance to overcome rivals, senior academic mao junfa told an industry event in nanjing earlier this month.
"china couldn't buy chips, even with cash in hand," he said, referring to washington's sanctions on chinese tech companies including huawei.
"the compound chip technologies could help china surpass rivals in the post-moore's law era.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: two historic shipwrecks and their artefacts – including chinese ceramics from as far back as the 14th century – have been discovered within singapore's territorial waters around pedra branca island, located at the easternmost point of singapore.
in 2015, several ceramic plates were discovered by accident by commercial divers involved in a maritime operation, which led to the discovery of the first historic shipwreck about 100m to the north-west of pedra branca.
one year later, the national heritage board (nhb) commissioned the archaeology unit of the iseas-yusof ishak institute (iseas) to survey and investigate the site, and to conduct excavations to recover wrecks and objects from the shipwreck.
these excavations, which continued until 2019, led to the discovery of a second historic shipwreck about 300m east of pedra branca.
excavations to recover artefacts from the second shipwreck were carried out from 2019 until mid-2021.
artefacts recoveredthe two shipwrecks originated from different periods, according to iseas' findings.
the first shipwreck contained chinese ceramics and may date back to the 14th century, a time when singapore was known as temasek, the research stated.
some of the key finds include longquan dishes and bowls, and a jarlet.
fragments of blue-and-white porcelain bowls with lotus and peony motifs from the yuan dynasty were also found in the shipwreck.
this ship carried more of these blue-and-white porcelain than "any other documented shipwreck in the world," said dr michael flecker, a visiting fellow and project director of maritime archaeology projects at iseas.
"many of the pieces are rare, and one is believed to be unique," he said.
iseas' research also noted that direct parallels can be made between the finds from the first shipwreck and those from archaeological excavations at empress place conducted in 2015 and from past excavations at fort canning park.
the second shipwreck, noted iseas' research, is likely to be the shah munchah, a merchant vessel that sank while voyaging from china back to india in 1796. artefacts recovered from this shipwreck include a range of chinese ceramics and non-ceramic artefacts, such as copper-alloy, glass sand agate objects, as well as four anchors and nine cannons of the ship.
the cannons were typically mounted on merchant ships employed by the east india company during the 18th and early 19th centuries, and used mostly for defensive purposes and signalling.
among the key non-ceramic finds in the second shipwreck were a jar shard depicting a dragon motif; an earthenware duck; figurines of guanyin's head, happy buddha and a boy of good fortune; figurines of a dog and mythical sea creature makara; a figurine of a chinese couple holding fans on a biscuit base; and a qingbai figurine of a horse with a side-saddle rider.
"had the ship survived another 23 years, she would almost certainly have called at the re-established port of singapore.
her incredibly diverse cargo provides great insights into the type of goods that would have been exchanged and purchased by the new inhabitants of this fledging city," said dr flecker.
next steps: conservation and historical significanceafter the removal of salt via the process of desalination, the artefacts have to be meticulously cleaned, conserved and catalogued.
in-depth research and documentation will also need to be carried out.
once the conservation, research and documentation have been completed, nhb will work towards exhibiting the artefacts in its museums from end-2021.
archaeological reports and research might also be published by iseas.
the institute might also conduct talks for members of the public.
mr yeo kirk siang, director of nhb's heritage research and assessment, told cna that the discoveries are "significant" in unveiling singapore's history.
"what is significant about it is it unveils part of our history before 1819.  that part is little known so far.
with every find, it enriches our understanding.
singapore's history is clearly connected to our maritime trade – in the past and even today," he said.
"understanding our maritime history helps us understand singapore's relations, our context and our place in the world, our geographic location, why it's important, what's the reason for our existence, and what's the reason for our success.
"if we can understand our past, it gives us a more grounded understanding of the world that we live in today," he added.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                kota bharu (bernama): the government anticipates that the vaccination of about 1.
2 million residents in kelantan will be completed by october, says national covid-19 immunisation programme coordinating minister khairy jamaluddin (pic).
he said it was based on the state government's target of administering 30 000 doses of covid-19 vaccine a day, next month.
"we will also provide another 550,000 doses of vaccine to kelantan next month (july) thus enabling the state to increase the administration rate to 30,000 doses a day or at least 20,000 (doses) a day," he said.
he said this at a press conference after attending the state-level covid-19 immunisation task force meeting with kelantan mentri besar datuk ahmad yakob at the darulnaim complex here on thursday (june 17).
khairy said he was confident that the target could be achieved following the positive development of the immunisation programme, including the vaccination outreach programmes.
"the daily vaccination rate in kelantan is now increasing to 12,000 (doses).
congratulations to kelantan for the implementation of the various outreach programmes to facilitate vaccination for the residents especially senior citizens," he said.
to date, 42 per cent of kelantan's eligible population have registered for the covid-19 vaccination.
kelantan will also set up five more vaccination centres (ppv), one each in kota bharu, bachok, pasir mas, machang and kuala krai.
bernamarelated stories:covid-19: residents in the interior of kelantan to receive single-dose cansino vaccine, says khairykhairy: govt considering mixing vaccines to boost efficacy against covid-19 variantscovid-19: you may walk in for jab after inoculation of the pre-registered is completed, says khairy

tags / keywords:
covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                vaccine
                                                                ,
                                                                                                khairy jamaluddin
                                                                ,
                                                                                                kelantan
                                                                ,
                                                                                                people



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
hong kong: hong kong police arrested five directors at the apple daily early on thursday (jun 17) morning, including its editor-in-chief, with a warrant to seize journalistic materials for the first time, in the latest blow to the newspaper's jailed owner jimmy lai.
the warrant, which police said was aimed at gathering evidence for a case involving the national security law that beijing imposed last year, raises further concerns about media freedoms in the city.
"this is a blatant attack on the editorial side of apple daily.
they are arresting editors," mark simon, an adviser to lai who is outside hong kong, told reuters.
"they're arresting the top editorial folks.
"the security law was beijing's first major move to set china's most restive city on an authoritarian path.
it punishes anything beijing deems as subversion, secessionism, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in prison.
hong kong police's national security department said in a statement that five directors of a company had been arrested on suspicion of collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security.
it said only that the five included four men and a woman aged between 47 and 63. apple daily said five of its directors, including editor-in-chief ryan law, chief executive officer cheung kim-hung, chief operating officer chow tat-kuen, deputy chief editor chan puiman and chief executive editor cheung chi-wai had all been arrested in morning raids.
the newspaper said at about 7.
30am local time that about 100 officers arrived at its headquarters and cordoned off the area.
national security police said in a statement that officers had searched a media company in tseung kwan o with a warrant that covers "the power of searching and seizure of journalistic materials".
police said late thursday morning that 500 officers raided the newsroom of apple daily after reports it had published were suspected to have breached the new national security law.
senior superintendent li kwai-wah told reporters outside the paper's headquarters that the police have also frozen hk$18 million ($2.
32 million) of assets owned by three companies linked to apple daily.
second raid in less than a yearthe paper broadcast live footage of the police raid on its facebook account.
officers could be seen cordoning off the complex and walking through the building.
"they arrived around 7am this morning, our building is besieged," an unnamed reporter said in a live commentary with the broadcast.
"now we can see them moving boxes of materials onto their truck.
""police are restricting us from using quite a lot of our equipment.
but we can still keep this live camera on and our website will keep updating," the voice added.
it is the second raid on apple daily in less than a year.
the move is the latest blow to apple daily after authorities last month directed lai's shares in next digital, publisher of the newspaper, to be frozen.
lai was arrested in august last year and later charged under the national security law imposed by china on its freest city.
the pro-democracy activist's assets were also frozen under the same law.
he has been in jail since december after being denied bail in a separate national security trial.
he faces three charges under the new law, including collusion with a foreign country.
in an interview with afp last month, editor-in-chief law struck a defiant tone.
he admitted that the paper was in "crisis" since the jailing of its owner but said his reporters were determined to press on with publishing.
at a recent townhall meeting, staff asked law what they should do if the police came back to arrest him.
he had a simple reply: "broadcast it live.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
twenty-four private healthcare institutions have been selected by the ministry of health (moh) to be licensed providers of sinovac's covid-19 vaccine.
moh said yesterday night that the clinics will be able to draw on an existing stock of the vaccine, and can administer it to singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders here.
the ministry added that as the vaccine is being provided to the institutions at no cost, the providers should not charge people for the cost of the vaccines.
there should not be any additional costs beyond vaccination administration fees, which already include consultation charges and 7 per cent gst, said moh.
these range from $10 to $25 per dose.
those interested may contact the providers directly from tomorrow for more details.
the 24 clinics were chosen based on their ability to administer the vaccines safely, properly and efficiently, said moh, adding that it had also considered their vaccination administration fees, experience in vaccine administration, and compliance history at past licensing inspections.
this will ensure that the services will be safe and affordable to members of public, said the ministry.
moh added that only 24 providers were approved, to ensure economies of scale for each institution administering the vaccines.
price and quality parameters were taken into consideration, as was the geographical spread of the providers, to ensure accessibility to members of the public.
moh added that as sinovac's vaccine remains unregistered and is not authorised by the health sciences authority for use under the pandemic special access route, it is to be provided only under the special access route (sar) framework, and hence will not be covered under the vaccine injury financial assistance programme meant for the national vaccination programme.
"individuals who nevertheless wish to receive sinovac-coronavac vaccinations under the sar framework should discuss with their doctors in the selected private healthcare institutions the risks and benefits of using the sinovac-coronavac vaccine, and jointly make an informed decision," cautioned the ministry.
the providers selected are:• 1 medical teck ghee• braddell medical clinic• chinatown wellness clinic• chua medical clinic and surgery• dedicare medical practice & surgery @ hougang• doctors for life medical• doctors koo, loh & associates• eha clinic @ jurong• elisa koh clinic & surgery for women• heartlandhealth (bedok south)• heartlandhealth (bukit batok)• icare medical and wellness clinic• icon cancer centre farrer park• integrated wellness clinic• little cross family clinic• mediview clinic and surgery• pinnacle family clinic (pasir ris)• pinnacle family clinic (serangoon north)• pulse clinic• rophi clinic• starmed specialist centre• thomson wellth clinic• wee healthfirst medical clinic• yim medical centre (admiralty mrt)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
geneva us president joe biden said china was trying to project itself as a responsible nation in regard to the covid-19 pandemic, but it remained unclear whether beijing was really trying to understand the origins of the coronavirus.
asked if he would call chinese president xi jinping as "old friend to old friend" to ask him to re-admit world health organization investigators, biden said: "let's get something straight: we know each other well, we're not old friends.
it's just pure business.
"biden made clear that he remained sceptical about china's cooperation with the who investigation.
"china is trying very hard to project itself as a responsible and very, very forthcoming nation, and they are trying very hard to talk about how they're helping the world in terms of covid-19 and vaccines," biden said.
"look, certain things you don't have to explain to the people of the world, they see the results.
is china really actually trying to get to the bottom of this?
"biden in may ordered aides to find answers to the origin of the virus that causes covid-19, which was first reported in the chinese city of wuhan, and said us intelligence agencies are looking at rival theories, potentially including the possibility of a laboratory accident in china.
a who-led team that spent four weeks in and around wuhan in january and february with chinese researchers said in its report that the virus had probably been transmitted from bats to humans through another animal, and that "introduction through a laboratory incident" was extremely unlikely.
but experts said some data had been withheld, and washington says the study was "insufficient and inconclusive".
china has repeatedly said that "politicising" the issue will hamper investigations.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore dickson yeo had approached various people in singapore, relying heavily on social networking platforms to reach out to them and gather information at the behest of a foreign country, said the internal security department (isd).
he had also attempted to find jobs in a range of positions in the government, thinking that he could access information of interest to his foreign handlers.
however, the department's investigations showed that no classified government information pertaining to singapore had been compromised as a result of yeo's activities, a spokesman told the straits times on tuesday (june 15).
earlier in the day, the agency overseeing domestic security announced that yeo had been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for acting as a paid agent of a foreign state.
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29. responding to queries from the straits times, the department said yeo was tasked by his foreign handlers to gather information on a wide range of subjects, primarily global and regional geo-political issues and developments.
"he had relied heavily and successfully on social networking platforms to reach out to individuals with the relevant expertise, knowledge and access.
he had pitched taskings to his resource persons as 'research topics' for his various foreign clients.
"the isd said it was unable to provide further details on the professions of these individuals or the number of persons involved.
the agency also said that yeo had tried to gain employment in a range of positions in the public sector positions and agencies he believed would allow him access to information of interest to his foreign handlers.
it added that it could not provide specific details of these jobs, citing operational and security reasons.
people looking to join the public sector in positions that require access to classified information will have to undergo security clearance, the isd said.
several factors are taken into consideration in this process, including the nature of the work and the sensitivity of the information dealt with.
"security checks will vary for different positions which have different levels of access to confidential information," the department added.
yeo's path to being a spy started during a trip to beijing in 2015, when he was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) at the national university of singapore at the time.
when news of yeo's activities broke after he pleaded guilty in a us court last july, the school terminated his phd candidature "with immediate effect".
at the time, retired diplomat bilahari kausikan revealed that one of yeo's former professors at the school was huang jing until 2017, when the academic was expelled from singapore "for being a chinese agent of influence".
on tuesday, an lkyspp spokesman said the past incidents involving its former staff member and former student show how different sectors in society, including education, can be potential targets for foreign subversion.
the best safeguard against illegal foreign subversion is a community that is aware and vigilant, she added.
the spokesman stressed that the school will not tolerate any acts or activities of foreign interference that threaten singapore's national security or interests.
its staff and students are also expected to conduct themselves fully in accordance with the laws of singapore at all times.
she added that the school has strengthened its procedures, saying: "we maintain an enhanced oversight on academic collaborations and partnerships, both local and overseas, and will also continue to keep a heightened awareness among all our staff and students on the risks of foreign interference.
"professor joseph liow, dean of the college of humanities, arts and social sciences, and tan kah kee chair in comparative and international politics at nanyang technological university, said of yeo's activities: "academics and researchers should be aware that these sorts of things happen in real life, and are not merely the stuff of spy novels or hollywood movies.
"foreign powers spy all the time, and spying is conducted in many ways, which have evolved with technology, he noted.
and one could say that by virtue of being a very open country, singapore is vulnerable to such activities, added prof liow.
"i wouldn't say that we have to be exceedingly worried about this, but we certainly need to be aware that such things take place, and also be alert to requests that appear unusual," he said.
"it's not happening on a daily basis, and of course our security agencies spend a lot of time making sure such activities don't take place.
but nevertheless as academics, researchers, or just regular citizens, we need to exercise some common sense and be vigilant.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a hawker centre at block 79 telok blangah drive will be closed for deep cleaning after a hawker there tested positive for covid-19.
the ministry of health (moh) had said on monday (june 14) that a 42-year-old singaporean man who is a hawker at the centre had developed body aches on june 12 and a fever on june 13. he sought treatment at singapore general hospital and later tested positive for the coronavirus.
he is a family member of another covid-19 case, a cooking assistant at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre who tested positive on june 13. as at monday, there were 16 cases linked to the bukit merah centre, which is now a covid-19 cluster.
the closure of the telok blangah drive food centre for deep cleaning and disinfection as a result of monday's case was announced in a facebook post by west coast grc mp rachel ong on tuesday night.
she said the national environment agency has been working together with the telok blangah shopkeepers & stallholders association to engage stallholders and assist them with their concerns and enquiries.
the town council has also put up notices at the food centre and neighbouring blocks to inform residents about the situation.
she added: "the safety of our residents and stallholders are our topmost priority and we will continue to work to ensure that the necessary precautions are in place.
.
.
we encourage all residents and friends to monitor your health closely and to see a doctor promptly if you feel unwell.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
good evening!
catch up on some of the main headlines on tuesday, june 15.  he was tasked with providing reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information on s'pore, said isd.
read more herethey include aia financial advisers, prudential assurance company singapore, aviva and aviva financial advisers.
read more herethe tests would be carried out on june 15 and 16 at block 84a redhill lane.
read more herefor the first time since june 29, 2020, there were no imported cases reported.
read more herethe treatment did not achieve the main goal of preventing symptomatic covid-19.
read more herethe fire, on the 3rd storey ceiling and attic of the shophouse, was extinguished at about 1.
15pm.
read more herethe charges include those involving the immigration and checkpoints authority.
read more herethe midfielder said he is feeling okay after collapsing during his country's euro 2020 opener.
read more heremalaysia might gradually open up its economy, social sectors and also parliament from september.
read more here​but the drop in sales volume was not as drastic as during the first month of the circuit breaker in april 2020. read more herejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
outside the soho china ltd.  wangjing soho project in beijing.
blackstone group inc.  is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in asia's largest economy, people familiar with the matter said.
the private equity firm could announce a deal as soon as this week, the people said, asking not to be identified because the matter is confidential.
soho china could be valued at about $3 billion in a transaction, the people said.
the developer has a market value of about hk$19.
8 billion ($2.
55 billion) based on its last closing price.
soho china shares were halted from trading tuesday in hong kong, pending an announcement under the city's takeover code.
the suspension came after its stock price surged 48% last week, the most since the company went public in 2007. the soho china ltd.  wangjing soho project in beijing.
photographer: qilai shen/bloombergwhile talks are in their final stage, they could still drag on or fall apart, the people said.
a representatives for blackstone declined to comment, while a representative for soho china didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
soho has been seen as a takeover target since early 2020, as a lack of new assets in its pipeline and declining office rents in key chinese cities put mounting pressure on its profits.
the beijing-based developer said in march last year it was in talks on a potential deal with overseas financial investors that could lead to a bid for the company.
blackstone was in discussions about a deal for soho, though negotiations stalled due to concerns about financing and the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, bloomberg news reported at the time.
soho said in august that all previous talks with potential investors had been terminated.
soho has developed 54 million square feet (5 million square meters) of commercial projects in beijing and shanghai, according to its website.
its key assets include the signature bund soho in shanghai and the landmark wangjing soho in beijing, designed by zaha hadid, the first woman to receive the prestigious pritzker architecture prize.
blackstone's real estate arm has about $196 billion of capital under management, according to its website.
the investment firm reached a $1.
1 billion deal in november to buy control of the biggest urban logistics park in southern china's greater bay area.
in late 2018, blackstone acquired a shanghai mall and office complex from mapletree investments pte for $1.
2 billion, people with knowledge of the mater said at the time.
it agreed the next year to buy stakes in chinese shopping centers in xi'an and zhengzhou from taubman centers inc. — with assistance by emma dong, and vinicy chan
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei (bloomberg) when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday (june 15) the largest such incursion this year they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
some of the people's liberation army planes, including bombers, fighter jets and surveillance and reconnaissance aircraft, flew east from the chinese coast around the southern tip of taiwan.
the rest broke off and briefly darted further south toward tiny pratas island in the south china sea before turning back.
the pla has flown close to the atoll uninhabited except for a garrison of taiwanese marines and coast guard officers once a week on average since sept 16, when the taiwanese defense ministry began releasing detailed data.
if all incursions into taiwan's air-defense-identification zone between pratas and the chinese mainland are included, the patrols have become an almost daily occurrence.
the exercises signal beijing's displeasure with the democratically elected government in taipei and its successful effort to court greater us support, as seen by a mention in the group of seven communique this week.
in response to china's moves, president joe biden's administration has stepped up surveillance flights near pratas, raising the risk of a confrontation or clash between two of the world's most powerful militaries.
the chinese focus on pratas serves several aims of president xi jinping, highlighting taiwan's vulnerability to attack while probing its defenses.
the strategy also tests the limits of washington's security commitment, and whether it's willing to go to war to defend largely vacant reefs hundreds of miles from the nearest american base.
the aerial campaign demonstrates that beijing has options for striking a blow against taipei that fall well short of a dangerous invasion across the 130km taiwan strait, which is becoming a more urgent concern for american military planners.
taking pratas island located closer to hong kong than taiwan could give china a new launching ground for future military operations without provoking a full-scale conflict with the us.
"there is now a serious possibility that china seeks to occupy one of the outer islands," prof ben schreer, who studies taiwan's defense policy and heads macquarie university's department of security studies and criminology in sydney.
"if that happens, what is the international community going to do?
what is the us going to do?
"even if mr xi has no immediate plans to seize any land, regular incursions help establish china's long-term presence in territory it claims as its own.
meanwhile, the drumbeat of exercises adds to the domestic political concerns for taiwanese president tsai ing-wen, who rejects beijing's claims to sovereignty.
the campaign has put new strain on taiwan's aging air force, which has seen three fatal crashes in the past nine months.
the service announced in march that it expected to spend nt$2.
1 billion (s$101.
5 million) more this year countering pla operations.
china's warplanes made more incursions into the southern part of taiwan's air defense identification zone last year than in the previous five years combined.
while beijing has blamed the exercises on tsai's refusal to accept that both sides belong to "one china," the increase has tracked with u. s.  efforts to step up arm sales and diplomatic exchanges with taiwan.
tuesday's operation came after the g-7 called for a "peaceful resolution" of the dispute in a statement more critical of china than past communiques.
"we urge the relevant countries to observe their promise to china and handle the taiwan question properly and stop sending wrongful signals to taiwan separatist forces," taiwan affairs office spokesman ma xiaoguang told reporters on wednesday in beijing.
such exercises help "carry out military simulations according to an actual combat plan and rehearse in the real environment", mr song zhongping, a former pla instructor on missile technology, told a social media account run by the beijing youth daily newspaper.
while taiwan's military has expressed confidence in its ability to defend pratas, it would be operating more than 400 kilometers from its coast and facing the world's largest navy.
taiwan has scrambled to upgrade its defenses around the atoll, reinforcing the garrison with 200 marines, sending in anti-armor rockets and restarting a stalled project to upgrade the local airstrip.
another concern for taiwan is a permanent loss of control over the skies between the main island and its territories in the south china sea, as taipei seeks to avoid close confrontations with china that could escalate into a clash.
chinese state media have hinted at an expansion of the strategy amid domestic calls for a tougher response to us moves.
the global times newspaper, which last year said beijing was considering military flights directly over taiwan, reported that china may retaliate over a visit by an american c-17 cargo plane earlier this month by sending patrols closer to taipei.
enodo economics, an independent macroeconomic and political forecasting company focused on china, raised the chances of a military conflict between the us and china to 65 per cent in march, compared with 10 per cent in january 2019.
"while a surprise attack on taiwan is possible, a more characteristic chinese approach would be to ratchet up threats with a view to both eroding taiwan's will to resist and providing a retrospective justification for its actions," said ms diana choyleva, enodo's chief economist.
"china is currently attempting to bring about reunification through a 'gray zone' campaign of mounting pressure, confident that time is on its side and that within the next few years the pla will be able to overmatch the u. s.  in the taiwan strait.
"the flights show china demonstrating its ability to project force far from its coast, potentially encircling taiwan and denying the us access to possible battlefields.
with no troops on taiwan, the bulk of american forces during any conflict would be deployed from their main bases in japan, south korea and guam, hundreds of miles away.
us warships in the western pacific seeking to intervene near pratas would need to pass through the bashi channel, which separates southern taiwan from the northern philippines.
correspondingly, the pla has made nine flights into the channel since september, giving its long-range h-6 bombers a route to the open sea while picking up data on rival defense systems and allowing its pilots to become more comfortable.
china also test-fired anti-ship missiles into the south china sea last year, in what us indo-pacific command admiral phil davidson called an "unmistakable message" of the country's focus on "countering any potential third-party intervention during a regional crisis".
the pla air force separately released a video in september showing h-6 bombers making a simulated strike on a runway that looked similar to one at anderson air force base on guam.
the us has sought to prove its commitment to ensuring the security of key shipping routes inside the so-called first-island chain, which includes the philippines, japan and taiwan.
the pentagon has roughly doubled reconnaissance flights over the south china sea this year, according to peking university's south china sea strategic situation probing initiative, with 72 such patrols last month.
much of those flights passed over the bashi channel, according to sites that monitor military air traffic.
in a written response to questions from bloomberg news last month, lieutenant mark langford, a spokesman for the us' seventh fleet, declined last to provide specifics on such flights, citing a need to maintain "operational security".
mr ely ratner, biden's nominee to be assistant secretary of defence for the indo-pacific, told the senate armed services committee on wednesday that the us needs a "combat-credible" posture in the region to counter china.
he added that he would "carefully review the current military balance across the taiwan strait to ensure that our defense cooperation with taiwan is commensurate with the threat posed" by china.
all that military activity increases the risk of a confrontation, such as the crisis that erupted in april 2001 when a us navy ep-3 reconnaissance plane collided with a chinese f-8 fighter jet.
two dozen american crew members were held for 11 days after making an emergency landing on hainan island.
the biden administration has renewed calls for china to open a hotline to help keep a misunderstandings between the two sides from escalating into a conflict, so far with little success.
"i worry about accidental collisions with tragic results given the pla's aggressive actions close to taiwan and other countries," said ms shirley kan, an independent specialist in asian security who previously worked for the us congressional research service.
"china is playing a dangerous game.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: singaporean dickson yeo had applied for a range of government jobs to access information that his foreign handlers would be interested in, the internal security department (isd) said on tuesday evening (jun 15).
earlier in the day, isd announced that yeo, 40, had been detained under the internal security act (isa) since jan 29 for acting as a paid agent for a "foreign state".
while isd did not name the foreign state, yeo was last year sentenced to 14 months' prison in the us for spying for china against the us.
isd said on tuesday that yeo carried out intelligence activities against singapore from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019. he was tasked to source for information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
"towards this end, he had approached various individuals in singapore in an attempt to obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports," isd said.
yeo also set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities as well as conducting recruitment for his foreign handlers.
he also tried, but failed, to get a job in the singapore government, isd said.
"yeo had tried to gain employment in a range of positions in the public sector, positions and agencies that he believed would allow him access to information of interest to his foreign handlers," isd said in response to queries from cna.
"we are unable to provide specific details due to operational and security reasons.
"nevertheless, isd said those seeking to join the public sector in positions that require access to classified government information will require security checks.
"several factors are taken into consideration in the conduct of security clearance, including the nature of the work in the position, and the sensitivity of the information that the position deals with," it added.
"security checks will vary for different positions which have different levels of access to confidential information.
for operational reasons, we are unable to go into the specifics.
"classified information not compromisedafter yeo admitted in a us court in july last year to working with chinese intelligence officials to obtain sensitive information from americans, singapore's ministry of home affairs said its investigations into yeo's actions did not reveal any direct threat to singapore's security.
isd explained that this assessment was based on initial information arising from yeo's arrest in the us last year.
"details on the extent of his activities in relation to singapore were surfaced only after his arrest and investigation under the isa following his return to singapore," it stated.
"however, our investigation showed that no classified government information pertaining to singapore had been compromised.
investigations are ongoing.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
some 28 chinese military aircraft flew into taiwan's air defence zone on tuesday, said its defence ministry, the largest reported incursion so far.
fighters and nuclear-capable bombers were among those in the so-called air defence identification zone (adiz).
the incident comes after nato leaders on monday warned of the military challenge posed by china.
while democratic taiwan sees itself as a sovereign state, beijing views the island as a breakaway province.
according to taipei, the chinese mission included 14 j-16, six j-11 fighters, four nuclear capable h-6 bombers as well as anti-submarine, electronic warfare and early warning aircraft.
an air defence identification zone is an area outside of a country's territory and national airspace but where foreign aircraft are still identified, monitored, and controlled in the interest of national security.
it is self-declared and technically remains international airspace.
the chinese aircraft flew close to the taiwan-controlled pratas islands, as well as around the southern part of taiwan itself.
china has over recent months regularly carried out flights over the waters between the southern part of taiwan and the pratas islands.
on 24 january, a similar mission saw 15 aircraft entering taiwan's air defence zone while on 12 april, taiwan reported 25 jets.
tuesday's operation came just one day after nato leaders at a summit in brussels warned of the military threat posed by china, calling its behaviour a "systemic challenge".
china, they said, was rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal, was "opaque" about its military modernisation and was co-operating militarily with russia.
over the weekend, g7 leaders urged china to "respect human rights and fundamental freedoms", highlighting abuses against the uyghur muslim minority group and the crackdown on hong kong pro-democracy activists.
both statements were strongly criticised and dismissed by china.
nato warns of military challenge posed by chinachina accuses g7 of manipulation and slanderfirst crew blasts off to new china space stationthree astronauts successfully take off for china's longest ever human spaceflight mission.
biden and putin praise talks but discord remainsdecoding biden and putin's body language.
videodecoding biden and putin's body languagewhy cyber gangs won't worry about us-russia talks'i walked three days to find a hospital for my son'covid threat to india's holiest river.
videocovid threat to india's holiest riverthe vast european mine infuriating the neighboursdecoding biden and putin's body language.
videodecoding biden and putin's body languagewhat's going on in iran's election?âmindset shiftingâ as more australians ditch boozebbc worklife: the myth of a new digital-nomad movementcruising industry still in choppy watersfootball phrases15 sayings from around the worldkim jong-un admits north korea food concerns1first crew blasts off to new china space station2eriksen to have heart-starting device3major australian banks hit by website outage4botswana diamond could be world's third largest5âmindset shiftingâ as more australians ditch booze6world bank rejects el salvador bitcoin request7the 32-year-old taking on big tech8the vast european mine infuriating the neighbours9biden and putin praise talks but discord remains10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
southeast asiathis story contains spoilers for marvel's loki, season 1, episode 2.  the second episode of marvel's loki has concluded with quite the major reveal, introducing a significant character from the thor comics to the mcu.
in the closing scenes of the second episode, it is revealed that the cloak and hooded variant that loki and agent mobius have been hunting is not, in fact, simply just an identical variant of the god of mischief.
instead, it is lady loki, a female variant of our protagonist, played by sophia di martino.
lady loki is a fairly major part of the recent-ish asgardian mythology of marvel comics.
she was introduced in 2008 as part of j.  michael straczynski's famed run on thor, in which loki was reborn as a woman following the apocalyptic events of ragnarok.
born into a body originally intended for lady sif, loki lived as a woman for a lengthy period, extending through to the dark reign storyline in which she teamed up with norman osborn.
in the comics, loki is both gender fluid and also able to take the form of a number of loki variations, kid loki being a particularly popular form.
it's part of the character's trickster personality; regardless of if they are a man, woman, or child, they are always loki.
the mcu may well be taking a slightly different approach to this, in that these gender/form variations of loki are present in different timelines, rather than the choice of the prime "sacred" timeline loki.
this second episode has already confirmed variants that include a frost giant and a hulk loki, but further episodes and more time spent with lady loki may reveal more about the mcu's loki lore.
this all links back to the recent confirmation that loki is gender fluid, as seen in his time variance authority file.
for more from loki, be sure to check out our episode 2 review, as well as our deep-dive on loki's evolution from villain to an agent of chaos.
matt purslow is ign's uk news and entertainment writer.
singapore: nine of the 14 new covid-19 cases reported in singapore on tuesday (jun 15) were linked to the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster.
this brings the total number of cases in the cluster to 25. the market, which was slated to reopen on wednesday after being closed since sunday, will now be shut for two weeks until jun 26. explaining the decision, the ministry of health (moh) said that the detection of more cases among employees at the market and their close contacts suggests there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission".
among the nine new cases linked to the market cluster was a pre-school teacher at kidscampus (chai chee).
she is a family member of one of the earlier cases in the cluster, known as case 64218.  moh said she was not quarantined as case 64218 had not reported her as a contact.
other new cases linked to the cluster included three food stall vendors and a sales executive at halnaz frozen goods, who occasionally goes to the company's shop at the market.
the remaining cases linked to the market were a supervisor at keong hong construction, a cleaner employed by sats facility management and two retirees.
unlinked casesfour other cases were unlinked to previous infections.
they included a foreign domestic worker from the philippines who developed a sore throat, cough and loss of smell on jun 14.  the 41-year-old received her first dose of a covid-19 vaccine on may 21. a 30-year-old singaporean woman who works as a sales representative at imperva singapore also tested positive.
she developed a fever and runny nose on jun 14 and sought treatment at a clinic on the same day.
another case involved a 35-year-old singaporean man who is unemployed.
he also developed symptoms of covid-19.
the remaining unlinked case was a 36-year-old singaporean woman.
the homemaker had a fever on jun 8, followed by loss of taste and smell on jun 10 but she did not seek treatment until jun 14. her family member and household contact a 35-year-old singaporean man who works as a senior executive at nets also tested positive on jun 14.  he developed symptoms the day before.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories.
there were also no imported cases reported on tuesday, the first such instance since jun 29, 2020. new locations visited by community casessupermarket outlets at clementi and tanglin halt road, as well as several shopping malls, were among the new locations added to the list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
the full list of new locations is as follows:more cases dischargedseventeen more covid-19 cases have been discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities, taking the total recoveries to 61,911, said moh.
a total of 137 cases are still in hospital, most of whom are stable or improving, with two in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
another 233 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
as of tuesday, singapore has reported a total of 62,315 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities from the disease.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
petaling jaya (the star/asia news network) malaysia's government is considering mixing two different vaccines to boost efficacy against different covid-19 variants, science minister khairy jamaluddin said on wednesday (june 16), as he also revealed a shift in his perspective towards herd immunity.
mr khairy said he was moving away from achieving herd immunity in malaysia, as he expects covid-19 to be endemic in the country.
"i've stopped using that term," he said at a webinar.
"i've advised the prime minister to be careful in using the term 'herd immunity', simply because my view as the coordinating minister, looking at the data and the science, is that this very well may be endemic and we may see covid-19 in a less threatening form, but it will stay with us for quite some time.
"what the world will look like, or what malaysia will look like in 2022, is a mixture of people who have been fully vaccinated as well as rapid test kits that can be used on a daily basis, and i think we need to introduce that as part of our lives.
"the national immunisation programme (nip) had set a target of vaccinating 80 per cent of the population to achieve herd immunity against covid-19.
mr khairy, also the coordinating minister for the nip, said the authorities are also looking at real-world data received from germany on heterologous vaccinations using vaccines from astrazeneca for the first dose, then pfizer-biontech as the second dose.
heterologous vaccinations, mr khairy said, was a method of using two different vaccines to boost efficacy against different variants.
he added that data from this has so far shown it to have boosted neutralising antibodies and better effectiveness against different variants.
"we are watching this very closely.
we do not want to make a quick decision on this before getting more data.
"the data points are coming in for heterologous vaccinations, and once the technical working group is clear on that, it will advise the committee that i chair with the health minister.
we will then implement the heterologous vaccinations," mr khairy said during a webinar titled the path to herd immunity organised by the oxford & cambridge society malaysia on wednesday.
he noted that there is a possibility that they will "end up doing this", as a lot of countries have been doing it to boost neutralising antibodies and efficacy.
"also, when you are facing vaccine supply constraints, you can mix it up to ensure that the effectiveness of the vaccine is still there," he said.
during the webinar, mr khairy also said the authorities were thinking of shortening the astrazeneca dosing interval, but acknowledged being constrained by problems with the astrazeneca vaccine supply.
"part of the astrazeneca supply from covax was delayed and some of the supplies from thailand were also slightly delayed.
so, we are recalculating our delivery schedules right now to see whether we can shorten the interval period for astrazeneca," he said.
the astrazeneca dosing interval is currently 12 weeks.
separately, the science minister said his ministry is working closely with the education ministry to consider inoculating those who would be in their examination year this year.
he said this will include teachers, support staff as well as national exam-year students, as the pfizer-biontech has been approved for those aged 12 to 15. join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singapore's oldest living pioneer artist lim tze peng turns 100 in september, but he is not one to let his age or a pandemic, for that matter get in the way of his art.
every morning, he walks 20 steps from his bed to a studio down the hallway.
standing in front of a piece of paper clipped to a board against the wall, he picks up his brush and wields it resolutely.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
bangkok (reuters) thailand will reopen to visitors within 120 days after more than a year of coronavirus travel curbs, a calculated risk needed to revive its troubled economy, prime minister prayut chan-o-cha said on wednesday (june 16).
the country is ahead of target in securing 105.
5 million doses of coronavirus vaccine for this year, and will seek more supplies next year, mr prayut said in a nationally televised speech.
he added that the country plans to administer an average of 10 million shots of coronavirus vaccine each month from july onwards and aims to reopen the tourism-reliant country to fully vaccinated travellers, local and foreign, without a quarantine requirement.
"reopening the country is one of the important ways to start reducing the enormous suffering of people who have lost their ability to earn an income," he said.
"when we take into consideration the economic needs of people, the time has now come for us to take that calculated risk.
he said he aimed to declare thailand fully open within 120 days and for tourism centres that are ready, "to do so even faster".
he said the risk was necessary and the country could not afford to wait to complete all of its vaccinations and for the spread of the virus to halt.
strict entry requirements and quarantine measures helped keep thailand's coronavirus outbreaks under control until recent months, but the curbs saw arrival numbers plummet to a fraction of its nearly 40 million visitors in 2019. it will start with a pilot reopening from july 1 on its most popular island, phuket, which has been vaccinating most of its local population.
thailand lost about us$50 billion (s$66.
3 billion) in tourism revenue last year an 82 per cent plunge.
mr prayut urged the public to get vaccinated as fast as possible and said the reopening target could be met only if the vaccines are delivered according to the committed schedules.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore twenty-four private healthcare institutions have been selected by the ministry of health (moh) to be licensed providers of sinovac's covid-19 vaccine.
moh said on wednesday night (june 16) that they will be able to draw on an existing stock of the vaccine, and can administer it to singaporeans, permanent residents and long-term pass holders here.
the ministry added that as the vaccine is being provided to the institutions at no cost, the providers should not charge people for the cost of the vaccines.
there should not be any additional costs beyond vaccination administration fees, which already include consultation charges and 7 per cent gst, said moh.
these range from $10 to $25 per dose.
those interested may contact the providers directly from june 18 for more details on how they may receive the vaccine.
the 24 were chosen based on their ability to administer the vaccines safely, properly and efficiently, said moh, adding that it had also considered their vaccination administration fees, experience in vaccine administration and compliance history at past licensing inspections.
this will ensure that the services will be safe and affordable to members of public, said the ministry.
moh added that only 24 providers were approved, to ensure economies of scale for each institution administering the vaccines.
price and quality parameters were taken into consideration, as was the geographical spread of the providers, to ensure accessibility to members of the public.
moh added that as sinovac's vaccine remains unregistered and is not authorised by the health sciences authority (hsa) for use under the pandemic special access route, it is to be provided only under the special access route (sar) framework, and hence will not be covered under the vaccine injury financial assistance programme meant for the national vaccination programme.
"individuals who nevertheless wish to receive sinovac-coronavac vaccinations under the sar framework should discuss with their doctors in the selected private healthcare institutions the risks and benefits of using the sinovac-coronavac vaccine, and jointly make an informed decision," the ministry cautioned.
1 medical teck ghee- braddell medical clinic- chinatown wellness clinic- chua medical clinic and surgery- dedicare medical practice & surgery @ hougang- doctors for life medical- doctors koo, loh & associates- eha clinic @ jurong- elisa koh clinic & surgery for women- heartlandhealth (bedok south)- heartlandhealth (bukit batok)- icare medical and wellness clinic- icon cancer centre farrer park- integrated wellness clinic- little cross family clinic- mediview clinic and surgery- pinnacle family clinic (pasir ris)- pinnacle family clinic (serangoon north)- pulse clinic rophi clinic- starmed specialist centre- thomson wellth clinic- wee healthfirst medical clinic- yim medical centre (admiralty mrt)read more: details on the healthcare institutions and feesjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore the woman at the centre of a controversy over the misuse of her wedding photograph for hari raya aidilfitri decorations has responded to the people's association's (pa) decision to cancel a planned meeting, saying it was a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue.
in a statement on tuesday (june 15), communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, said it was disappointing that the pa has decided to cancel the meeting with her and her husband that was meant to take place at 10am on tuesday.
"while there was an infringement of our privacy and intellectual property rights, our intentions have always been clear from the start to be active citizens and to positively contribute to making singapore a better, more inclusive home for our daughter," she said.
she was referring to how her and her husband's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency recently.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
[[nid:530926]]after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
however, the pa on monday announced that it had decided to cancel the meeting, citing disagreements with the couple over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
the pa noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting, and said it did not see why the meeting "should be appropriated as a platform for (ms sarah) to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident".
it had also said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuates the racist culture" and was "racist", and rejected these claims.
in her response to the pa's decision, ms sarah said that the incident did not just affect her and her husband through the "culturally insensitive" depiction of hari raya aidilfitri celebrations, but also the wider community that celebrates hari raya aidilfitri.
"we are all equal stakeholders in the work that the pa does.
we feel this is a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue; for thoughts and suggestions of members of the community to be relayed, and also for the people's association to listen to the people's voices.
it is unfortunate that the pa has turned this opportunity down," she said.
"we will continue to advocate for deeper intercultural understanding and greater social cohesion in our everyday lives as singaporeans," ms sarah added.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cqi44ohbnv3/?utm_source=ig_embed&utm_campaign=loading[/embed]it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also said that what happened in radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
it added that it will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of singapore's different cultures.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
by bianca farmakis| 9 hours agoa woman was mortified to realise she had turned up to a wedding dressed identically to the bridesmaids, despite not being part of the bridal party.
lisa marie torres, who shares regular wedding etiquette content to her tiktok profile, had accompanied her fiance to the wedding, in which he was a groomsman.
on her arrival, torres discovered her pale lilac dress looked shockingly similar to the one worn by the five bridesmaids.
related: bride-to-be slammed after disinviting mother to wedding over her outfit choicetheir floor-length gowns were the same colour as torres' below-the-knee dress, and all had a similar halter-top neckline.
in her tiktok video, torres is seen looking up "wedding etiquette" and clicking on an article revealing "the colours you can't wear to a wedding.
"a screenshot of the article states, "if you're not a bridesmaid, wearing the same colours as the 'maids can make you look like a wannabe.
"related: bride horrified after mother-in-law shows up to wedding in similar gown"if you know the bride or one of the bridesmaids well, don't be shy about asking what colour they're wearing so you can include it in your list of colours you can't wear to the wedding," the article states.
torres looks shocked, writing in a caption, "i think i did this.
"she then pans to an image of the bridal party and cuts to a portrait of torres and her fiance, capturing the similarities between the gowns.
tiktok users laughed at torres' mistake, but many were confused as to how she was supposed to know in the first place.
"how are you supposed to know what colour they are wearing?"
asked one user.
"that's what i asked!
it's often on the wedding website also, the invitation usually shows wedding colours," she replied.
related: bride-to-be shocked after mother-in-law buys similar dress for her wedding"i nearly died of post-event embarrassment.
not sure if this is an actual thing, but this is how i felt.
"hoping to not repeat her mistake, torres said she would be attending another wedding the following week where her fiance was a groomsman yet again, but she was not a bridesmaid.
"i'll be wearing black this time instead of their wedding colours," she said.
fortunately, the bride confirmed to torres that she didn't "even notice" her matching dress, and said all her guests "looked great.
"auto news: kia's australian open fleet hits the road caradvice.
com.
auonline coupons and best dealsedensearch properties in austop utes!© 2021 nine digital pty ltd© 2021 nine digital pty ltd
following their widely successful the show global livestream concert, yg entertainment and blackpink recently announced the upcoming release of a 5th-anniversary movie.
part of the k-pop supergroup's "4+1 project," blackpink the movie is expected to arrive august 8 to mark the date when blackpink debuted back in 2016.  the film will highlight the group's special moments and feature unreleased interviews and "beauty" scenes of jennie, rosé, lisa and jisoo.
along with re-edited footage that offers an immersive experience of blackpink's the show and in your area concerts.
premiering at south korea's cgv cinemas in "screen x" and "4dx" formats, blackpink the movie will see a follow-up release in specific regions with dates to be announced in the coming weeks.
head over to blackpink's 5th-anniversary website for more information.
a post shared by blλɔkpiиk (@blackpinkofficial)

in case you missed it, post malone spent $1.
6 million usd on diamond fang veneers.
gain access to exclusive interviews with industry creatives, think pieces, trend forecasts, guides and more.
we charge advertisers instead of our readers.
if you enjoy our content, please add us to your adblocker's whitelist.
we'd really appreciated it.
learn more ›
nadine chuathe new paperjun 16, 2021it was his day off and he was resting at home, nursing a fever after getting his second covid-19 vaccine dose a day earlier.
mr muhammad nazlan was watching tv with his wife on sunday night while their three children were out at the playground, located about 50m in front of his housing board unit.
suddenly, his daughter, 10, burst into their first-storey flat, screaming and crying.
mr muhammad, 34, a pest control technician, told the new paper yesterday: "i could not hear what exactly she was saying.
all i knew was something bad had happened to my son.
"i rushed out with my wife and saw my son lying on the ground, his arm stuck to a lamp post.
my son was unconscious but his eyes were still open, and i thought he was gone.
"his eldest son, 14-year-old muhammad rifqy, was playing football with a friend when both teenagers got an electric shock from a lamp post near the fitness corner at block 63 lorong 5 toa payoh.
the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said it received a call for assistance at 8.
25pm and two people were taken to kk women's and children's hospital.
mr muhammad said his son was initially in the intensive care unit but was moved to a regular ward on monday afternoon.
he said rifqy's friend had been discharged.
while his son is conscious, mr muhammad's friend, mr khairul anuar, 36, said rifqy is "not his old self" yet.
"i have been talking to him through video calls.
he is traumatised and his speech is slurred.
sometimes he talks using one word at a time.
but at least he is slowly recovering," said mr khairul, a grabfood rider.
it could have been much worse, if not for mr muhammad's prompt action.
rifqy had lost consciousness from an electric shock after he went to retrieve a ball that had rolled towards the lamp post.
"when i saw him lying there, i quickly tried to pull him away from the lamp post but his arm was stuck to it," said mr muhammad, who is asthmatic.
"that part of his arm looked like it was burned.
my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless.
i also felt another two shocks, one in my hand and one in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away.
"all i could think of was: if he dies, i also die with him.
"mr muhammad said his son seemed as if he had tensed up, and he felt helpless.
"i felt like a useless father because i wanted to give him cpr (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) but people around me were reminding me not to touch him," he said.
the scdf arrived moments later to tend to his son and the friend.
mr muhammad said his son told him the two had got to know each other three days prior to their sunday meeting, and the boy received a jolt when he touched rifqy.
when tnp visited the scene yesterday afternoon, workers were completing the installation of four new lamp posts.
mr muhammad, whose youngest is a five-year-old boy, said staff from bishan-toa payoh town council (btptc), which manages the estate, had contacted him and offered assistance.
town council statementin a statement last night, the town council said it had completed checks to establish the probable cause of the electric shock.
"the btptc licensed electrical worker (lew) noticed a small tear to the insulation of the live wire inside the lamp post.
this would not be visible unless we remove the junction box.
"from the finding, the lew assessed that the exposed part of the wire touching the metal part of the lamp post could be the cause of the electric shock," said the town council.
"the lew has also checked other lamp posts within the same circuitry and found no similar situation.
the incident could be an isolated case as there was also no previous similar incident of such nature.
"the btptc added that works to rectify the issue were completed yesterday and it will "continue to ensure the safety of (the) electrical installations (it manages)".
"i have lived in this flat for 13 years.
my children have been playing at the playground since they were babies.
but now, even with new lamp posts installed, i am not sure if it is safe to let my kids play outside any more," said mr muhammad.
"all i can think of is if my son will recover fully.
i am worried because this is not just a fall or a fracture.
i don't know how he will be affected by this in the long run.
"get the new paper for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
singapore at least one retail worker at ion orchard was injured after glass panel doors shattered on the first day of the mall's reopening on wednesday (june 16).
the man, who was wearing a staff lanyard from make-up brand bobbi brown, had cuts on his arms.
three singapore civil defence force (scdf) officers were seen arriving at the scene at around 11.
20am.
blood splatter on the floor could be seen among the shattered glass.
the straits times has contacted ion orchard and the scdf for more information.
before the incident, retail staff at ion orchard were seen busy tidying up their wares and preparing their storefronts in anticipation of shoppers returning after a four-day closure for deep cleaning and disinfection.
the mall was ordered to close from last saturday to tuesday by the ministry of health, after a number of covid-19 cases were linked to it.
on wednesday, the mall, which has 400 retailers, reopened its doors at 10am.
at some stores, staff were seen dusting their display shelves and racks.
but not all stores were ready to welcome customers by 11am.
british luxury fashion house burberry and japanese department store muji were among those that remained shuttered.
in a circular to tenants on wednesday, ion orchard said only shops whose staff have all been swabbed and tested negative are allowed to reopen.
it added: "you are expected to make the necessary arrangements to begin your operations and ensure the stores are manned accordingly.
"[[nid:530121]]still, about a dozen shoppers were seen at the mall, including ms liyana laily, 29, who works in quality assurance.
she decided to pop by the mall as she was in the area.
she was not aware that ion orchard had been closed for four days owing to covid-19.
"but i'm not worried.
singapore has a certain standard of cleanliness and obviously they want business to come back, so they would put in effort to maintain that standard," she said.
another shopper who wanted to be known only as mr koda, 41, also dropped by the mall to buy a pair of shoes for his two-year-old son.
he, too, was not concerned about the recent covid-19 cases linked to the mall.
"if anything, this would be the cleanest place in singapore after all that cleaning," said mr koda, who works in the energy sector.
"and singapore does a good job of cleaning, so i'm not worried," he added.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
singapore: twenty-four private healthcare institutions have been selected to administer the government's stock of sinovac covid-19 vaccines, the ministry of health (moh) said on wednesday (jun 16).
fees range from s$10 to s$25 for a single dose.
through the special access route (sar) for unauthorised covid-19 vaccines, the providers can draw upon moh's existing stock to administer sinovac's two-dose vaccine to singaporeans, permanent residents and those holding long-term passes.
applications by providers to administer the vaccine were reviewed based on their ability to do so safely, properly and efficiently, moh said.
other factors the ministry considered were the providers' proposed vaccination administration fees, experience in vaccine administration and its compliance history at past licensing inspections.
this was done to ensure that services would be safe and affordable to members of public, said moh.
"as these vaccines are being provided to the providers at no cost, individuals should take note that the providers should not charge them for the vaccine cost," moh added.
the fees listed are also inclusive of consultation and 7 per cent gst.
"there should not be any additional costs (beyond the vaccination administration fees listed) charged by these providers," said moh.
those interested in receiving the sinovac vaccine may contact the providers directly from jun 18 for more information.
the ministry also reiterated that sinovac is not part of the national vaccine programme and therefore will not be covered under the vaccine injury financial assistance programme for covid-19 vaccination.
those who still wish to receive the vaccine through the sar should discuss the risks and benefits with their doctors at their selected private healthcare institutions, moh said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
washington: several republican lawmakers, eager to blame a us government official for the response to the covid-19 pandemic, introduced a bill on tuesday (jun 15) to fire anthony fauci, the face of american efforts to combat covid-19.
congresswoman marjorie taylor greene led a handful of colleagues in announcing the so-called fire fauci act, which would reduce the famed infectious disease expert's government salary to zero and require the senate to confirm someone to fill his position.
fauci, who has advised seven us presidents, had become a trusted figure in the government's covid-19 response, beginning with his work during donald trump's administration.
but conservatives have taken aim at his performance, accusing him of misleading americans and providing contradictory advice on masks and social distancing.
"dr fauci was not elected by the american people.
he was not chosen to guide our economy.
he was not chosen to rule over parents and their children's education," greene told reporters.
"but yet dr fauci very much controlled our lives for the past year.
"the bill is not expected to receive a floor vote in the democratically-controlled house.
greene, whose extremist statements have made her a controversial figure in congress, pointed to a series of fauci emails that republicans seized on to argue that he misled americans and initially dismissed the idea that covid-19 may have originated in a chinese laboratory.
"it's time to fire dr anthony fauci and give answers to the american people," she said.
the white house defended fauci this month after the emails surfaced, calling him "an undeniable asset" in the pandemic response.
greene also aimed a fiery accusation at china, voicing suspicion that a wuhan laboratory was seeking to weaponise the virus.
"why would there ever be viruses created, taken out of nature, that can be shared and passed among bats or other creatures, and then harnessed and changed into some sort of virus that can be spread among people?
there's a word for that: it's called bioweapon," she said.
"were we all victims of a bioweapon?
we demand answers.
"china also must be held accountable, she said, noting the wuhan institute of virology's "gain-of-function" research, in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
this week the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the pandemic originated with a leak from her specialised wuhan lab denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times.
another fire fauci sponsor, congressman mo brooks, expressed support for greene's bioweapons theory, saying a country would only make a virus more contagious for "militarisation purposes".
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

chinese foreign ministry spokesperson zhao lijian.
file photo
  | photo credit: 
ap
  senior chinese epidemiologist said the united states should be the priority inthe next phase of investigations into the origin of covid-19 after a study showed the disease could have been circulating there as early as december 2019, state media said on thursday.
the study, published this week by the u. s.  national institutes for health (nih), showed that at least seven people in five u. s.  states were infected with sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19, weeks before the united states reported its first official cases.
a china-world health organization (who) joint study published in march said covid-19 most likely originated in the country's wildlife trade, with the virus passing into humans from bats via an intermediary species.
but beijing has promoted the theory that covid-19 entered china from overseas via contaminated frozen food, while a number of foreign politicians are also calling for more investigations into the possibility it leaked from a laboratory.
zeng guang, chief epidemiologist with the chinese center for disease control and prevention, told state-owned tabloid the global times that attention should shift to the united states, which was slow to test people in the early stages of the outbreak, and is also the home of many biological laboratories.
"all bio-weapons related subjects that the country has should be subject to scrutiny," he was quoted as saying.
commenting on the u. s.  study on wednesday, foreign ministry spokesman zhao lijian said it was now "obvious" the covid-19 outbreak had "multiple origins" and that other countries should co-operate with the who.
the origin of the pandemic has become a source of political tension between china and the united states, with much of the recent focus on the wuhan institute of virology (wiv), located in wuhan where the outbreak was first identified in late 2019. china has been criticised for its lack of transparency when it comes to disclosing data about early cases as well as the viruses studied at wiv.
a report by a u. s.  government national laboratory concluded that it was plausible that the virus had leaked from the wuhan lab, the wall street journal reported earlier this month.
a previous study has raised the possibility that sars-cov-2 could have been circulating in europe as early as september, but experts said this didn't necessarily mean it did not originate in china, where many sars-like coronaviruses have been found in the wild.
our code of editorial valuesplease enter a valid email address.
printable version | jun 17, 2021 3:05:31 pm | https://www.
thehindu.
com/news/international/covid-19-origins-probe-should-shift-to-us-says-china-disease-expert/article34837056.
ece

© thg publishing pvt ltd. 

a video on the protests in budapest against the building of a fudan university campus in the city

diplomatic affairs editor suhasini haidar discusses what led to the country's current vaccine crisis
singapore the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday (june 13) that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
[[nid:485082]]the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said: "the police have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law.
"this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
while the country cheered last week over the news that some measures in phase two (heightened alert) would be eased from june 13, the beleaguered food and beverage (f&b) industry also perked up when the ministry of health (moh) said dining in for groups of five will be allowed to resume from next monday (june 21), as long as the covid-19 situation remained under control.
but with community infections spiking of late, they may now have to delay welcoming back dine-in customers.
in a video on facebook yesterday, finance minister lawrence wong, co-chair of the multi-ministry task force tackling the pandemic, said the government is "evaluating the timing and scope of the next stage of reopening" because of the "latest outbreak of cases".
dr paul tambyah, president of the asia-pacific society of clinical microbiology and infection, does not believe the current situation is dire enough to postpone lifting the restriction on dining in, especially with the country's vaccination numbers ticking up.
he said: "all these public health interventions are risk versus benefit calculations.
the economic and social impact of further restricting dining in is most likely going to far outweigh any possible benefit in reducing infections in a highly vaccinated society like ours.
"associate professor hsu li yang, vice-dean of global health at the saw swee hock school of public health at the national university of singapore (nus), said: "we will have to ease measures sooner or later.
[[nid:529981]]"the food and beverage industry has been severely affected over the past year, and the impact is disproportionately higher on the smaller establishments and elderly hawkers that are less tech-savvy and who are less able to transit to online deliveries.
"a delay in reopening would be tough on restaurants, hawkers and other f&b outlets, and will also be a blow to members of the public who have been looking forward to eating out.
for dr hannah clapham, assistant professor at the saw swee hock school of public health at nus, vaccinations, transmissibility and timing are the keys to deciding whether to continue to ease measures.
"vaccination rates are rapidly increasing in the population, but we still have some way to go.
with the current delta variant being more transmissible, it is important to continue to keep a handle on the transmission until more people in the population are protected," she told the new paper yesterday.
from june 6 to 12, the number of community infections here averaged 4.
6 cases.
the average for linked and unlinked cases was 2.
6 and 2, respectively.
[[nid:531770]]over the next four days, the average number of community infections grew to 15.
25, with an average of 12.
75 linked cases and 2.
5 unlinked cases.
and as of yesterday, there were 39 cases linked to the cluster at bukit merah view market and food centre.
referring to the spike in cases, dr leong hoe nam, an infectious diseases specialist at mount elizabeth novena hospital, said: "the number of unlinked cases is important.
in fact, it is the more important of the two (linked and unlinked cases).
it tells us when cases were not anticipated and where contact tracing failed.
"with unlinked cases, we risk the virus spreading uncontrollably.
"while it is "expected" and "normal" for covid-19 community cases to hit double digits, he added: "the number of unlinked cases should be below two and ideally none at all.
anything between three and five is worrying.
the virus spreads very fast.
"singapore moved to phase two (heightened alert) on may 16 after a spike in community cases, and it was slated to end on june 13 if the measures worked.
[[nid:524350]]with the number of cases falling, the moh announced that the country would move to phase three (heightened alert) starting from june 14, with people allowed to gather in groups of five, up from two, and operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries going up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent, among other moves.
a further relaxation of measures, including dining in, was set to follow a week later.
professor dale fisher, an infectious diseases expert from the nus yong loo lin school of medicine, has consistently emphasised the importance of the rate of vaccination.
"economically, many hawkers, restaurant owners and workers have been suffering.
on the other hand, there is a high risk of covid-19 spreading as people mingle with masks off.
this is the argument to balance," prof fisher said.
"of course, if everyone in the country were to be vaccinated, we would be comfortable that anyone infected would usually have only a mild illness, if anything.
"this article was first published in the new paper.
permission required for reproduction.
shanghai: a senior chinese epidemiologist said the us should be the priority in the next phase of investigations into the origin of covid-19 after a study showed the disease could have been circulating there as early as december 2019, state media said on thursday (jun 17).
the study, published this week by the us national institutes for health (nih), showed that at least seven people in five us states were infected with sars-cov-2, the virus that causes covid-19, weeks before the country reported its first official cases.
a joint study by china and the world health organization (who) published in march said the virus most likely originated in the country's wildlife trade, with the virus passing into humans from bats via an intermediary species.
but beijing has promoted the theory that covid-19 entered the country from overseas via contaminated frozen food, while a number of foreign politicians are also calling for more investigations into the possibility it leaked from a laboratory.
zeng guang, chief epidemiologist with the chinese center for disease control and prevention, told state-owned tabloid the global times that attention should shift to the us, which was slow to test people in the early stages of the outbreak, and is also the home of many biological laboratories.
"all bio-weapons related subjects that the country has should be subject to scrutiny," he was quoted as saying.
commenting on the us study on wednesday, foreign ministry spokesman zhao lijian said it was now "obvious" the covid-19 outbreak had "multiple origins" and that other countries should cooperate with the who.
the origin of the pandemic has become a source of political tension between china and the united states, with much of the recent focus on the wuhan institute of virology (wiv), located in wuhan where the outbreak was first identified in late 2019. china has been criticised for its lack of transparency when it comes to disclosing data about early cases as well as the viruses studied at wiv.
a report by a us government national laboratory concluded that it was plausible that the virus had leaked from the wuhan lab, the wall street journal reported earlier this month.
a previous study has raised the possibility that sars-cov-2 could have been circulating in europe as early as september, but experts said this didn't necessarily mean it did not originate in china, where many sars-like coronaviruses have been found in the wild.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
news corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
a woman was left horrified after realising that she had accidentally committed one of the biggest wedding fails a guest could make.
the tiktok user, @lisalovesrandom, shared how she had turned up at her friend's big day dressed as a bridesmaid even though she wasn't one.
in a video shared to the site, lisa who is currently engaged can be seen researching wedding etiquette.
she comes across an article that says: "if you're not a bridesmaid, wearing the same colour as the 'maids can make you look like a wannabe.
"an image of a bride standing with her bridesmaids in purple dresses then flashes up.
next, an image of lisa at the same event pops up and she's wearing an almost identical lavender-hued frock.
to make matters worse, lisa is standing with her fiancé who is a groomsman, making it seem as if she's even keener to slip her way into the bridal party.
captioning the clip, the bride-to-be wrote: "have you ever accidentally broken #weddingetiquette?
.
so sorry @kathleeeenk .
i didn't know.
"the video has been watched thousands of times, and received more than a hundred 'likes'.
one person wrote: "thank you for everything you're teaching me.
"another sympathetic person commented: "how are you supposed to know what colour they are wearing?
"a third shared: "that's funny.
"then the bride herself, kathleen, replied: "girl i didn't even notice!!
you all looked great.
"lisa responded: "hahaha.
so glad you weren't upset.
phew.
"it comes as lisa revealed how she had presented her bridesmaids with a list of all the costs for her wedding.
in other wedding news, we told you how a budget bride was savaged for her foam cake.
we also revealed how a cheeky bride asked strangers to donate to her big day via paypal.
and a groom checked his phone as his bride walked down the aisle in viral tiktok video.
daily horoscope today – the sun's free news and updates for your star sign june 17: give someone special space and feel your own heart grow stranger leaves mum with crying baby a note but it's not what you think how martine mccutcheon overcame 'chubby' swipe to look better than ever at 45©news group newspapers limited in england no.
679215 registered office: 1 london bridge street, london, se1 9gf.
"the sun", "sun", "sun online" are registered trademarks or trade names of news group newspapers limited.
this service is provided on news group newspapers' limited's standard terms and conditions in accordance with our privacy & cookie policy.
to inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our syndication site.
view our online press pack.
for other inquiries contact us.
to see all content on the sun, please use the site map.
the sun website is regulated by the independent press standards organisation (ipso)
how they can help in wealth creationtomorrow is different.
let's reshape it todaylet's get smarter about money#toughertogetherhunt for the brightest engineers in indiamental health awareness initiativethe dynamic duo of a holistic self-caredownload the economic times news app to get daily market updates & live business news.
etprime stories of the dayspillover from the x-press pearl disaster: india's beaches will be swamped with heaps of plasticsnew waves of the pandemic breach defences of asian countries that had earlier contained itgearing up for an ipo: can delhivery meet investor expectations as focus shifts to the bottom line?trending nowpopular categorieshot on webin case you missed itet verticalsmore from our networkother useful linksservicesfind this comment offensive?choose your reason below and click on the report button.
this will alert our moderators to take actionreason for reporting:your reason has been reported to the admin.
log in/connect with:will be displayedwill not be displayedwill be displayedstories you might be interested in
singapore—bytedance ltd. , the owner of popular short-video app tiktok, told employees that its revenue last year more than doubled to $34.
3 billion, underscoring why the chinese technology giant is one of the world's hottest startups.
the privately held company on thursday shared highlights of its 2020 financial performance with its employees.
bytedance said its total revenue grew 111% from a year ago, while gross profit rose 93% to $19 billion, according to excerpts of a company memo viewed by the wall street journal.
bytedance had about 1.
9 billion monthly active users across all its platforms as of december 2020, according to the memo.
the company also runs viral apps such as douyin, the domestic chinese equivalent of tiktok, and a news aggregation app called jinri toutiao.
the beijing-based firm told staffers that it incurred a $2.
1 billion operating loss from january to december last year.
the loss was partly due to higher expenses incurred from share-based compensation to workers, according to a person familiar with the matter.
for 2019, bytedance had reported an operating profit of $684 million.
its net loss for 2020 totaled $45 billion, due largely to an accounting adjustment the company made for an increase in the fair value of its convertible redeemable preferred shares.
startups that have raised outside funds often have to take these noncash charges as their valuations rise, if they prepare results in line with international financial reporting standards.
we are delighted that you'd like to resume your subscription.
you will be charged
        $ + tax
        (if applicable) for the wall street journal.
you may change your billing preferences at any time in the customer center or call
        customer service.
you will be notified in advance of any changes in rate or terms.
you may cancel your subscription at anytime by calling
        customer service.
please click confirm to resume now.
wsj membershipcustomer servicetools & featuresadsmoredow jones products
former people's action party (pap) member of parliament (mp) amrin amin gets a taste of winter after netizens began flooding his instagram account with the snowflake emoticon under his most recent posts.
a member of the public had earlier criticised the former parliamentary secretary for being "out of touch" when the latter opined on monday (14 june) that the people's association (pa)'s faux pas of using a malay couple's wedding photograph as a prop in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru is not a racist incident.
mr amrin, however, responded by calling him a "snowflake", which drew a lot of flak from other netizens.
in the comments section of mr amrin's post about the incident, one netizen replied that other individuals from minority communities do not have to agree with mr amrin's assessment of whether the incident is racist or not.
"no offense, but just cos you don't see it as racist don't mean the rest of us minorities have to agree with you.
stop being out of touch," the netizen wrote.
the slew of snowflake emojis on mr amrin's instagram posts came after it was disclosed by several users that accounts posting comments mentioning the word "snowflake" have been blocked from mr amrin's page, following the exchange on monday.
a contributor told wake up, singapore: "he/his pr team is blocking anyone who comments the word 'snowflake' on his posts".
sharing a tiktok video he made to celebrate the dragon boat festival, mr amrin shared that he "made 'bak chang' (meat rice) dumplings with family".
"did you make any?
i wish you and family peace and health this dragon boat festival.
!"
he added.
a post shared by amrin amin (@amrinamin)users did not hesitate to poke fun at mr amrin's post, leaving comments with references to snowflakes, in addition to the numerous comments only containing snowflake emoticons.
"wishing you the same, snowflake," said one commenter.
"eh your dumplings got snowflake flavour or not ah," wrote another.
"can we have snowflake festival instead?"
one commenter joked.
several commenters made references to elsa of arendelle, a fictional character from the disney film franchise "frozen" who is well-known for her superpower of creating and controlling ice and snow.
"elsa would be proud of this comment section," said one user.
two other most recent posts — one about covid-19 testing, the other about the easing of pandemic restrictions — were not spared from the cold as users proceeded to leave multiple comments with snowflake emoticons.
the word snowflake is derogatory slang for a person deemed to be very sensitive or easily offended.
according to the collin's dictionary definition, it means: "someone deemed too emotionally vulnerable to cope with views that challenge their own, particularly in universities and other forums once known for robust debate.
"in his post on monday (14 june), mr amrin shared the pa's latest statement on the use of the wedding photo in its hari raya decorations at radin mas which caused an uproar two weeks ago when the woman whose photo was used called out the pa for its actions.
following the incident, the pa issued a public apology, however ms sarah bagharib said that the apology shed light on "glaring gaps" that reflect a "very superficial understanding of the gravity of the issue".
in response, the pa made a statement on its facebook page on monday referencing her interview with nanyang technological university professor walid jumblatt abdullah, from which she was quoted as saying that the incident has perpetuated a culture of racism.
the pa said: "these are accusations we reject.
while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments.
"the organisation claimed that it had explained to ms sarah that while it acknowledges that its staff "should have been more culturally sensitive", it is not right to paint "sweeping conclusions from this incident", adding that it was an "isolated case".
the pa went on to describe ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting as "odd", adding that it does not see why that meeting should be "appropriated" as a platform for public grievances unrelated to the incident.
as such, the pa said that it will not be following through with the meeting as there is "no point" in doing so, in light of the above.
sharing the pa's statement on his own facebook page on the same day, mr amrin wrote that the lesson in this who situation is that while it is wrong to use a person's photo without permission and that weddings do no equate to hari raya, what the pa did was not "racist".
"as we call out racism, we must be careful not to label every error as borne out of racism or 'racist culture'. "
said the former mp of sembawang grc.
he went on to say that while it is crucial to point out shortcomings, people should not be too hasty to "cancel" and always look out for "opportunists eager to score points in their desire to gain mileage at any cost, without regard to sincere ongoing ground efforts".
he concluded, "grace is important in building harmony in a diverse society.
no one is perfect.
it's a work-in-progress.
not every slip is armageddon.
"mr amrin's remarks, however, were largely met with indignation from netizens.
some expressed shock at his move to call ms sarah an "opportunist".
many pointed out that mr amrin appears to be out of touch with his community and that they are glad he is no longer in office, as his views do not represent that of the people in the malay community.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                international trade and industry minister datuk seri mohamed azmin ali (right) and penang chief minister chow kon yeow (center) having a light moment with factory worker ong hock keah, 48 at the vaccination centre (ppv) under the program imunisasi industri covid-19 kerjasama awam-swasta (pikas) at bukit jawi golf resort in nibong tebal, penang, thursday.
nibong tebal: the yang di-pertuan agong's call for parliament to reconvene as soon as possible is in line with the government's intentions, says datuk seri azmin ali.
the senior minister said the government has all the while intended to reconvene parliament when the time is right.
"the government constantly ensures that all actions or efforts taken within the past one year are in accordance with the federal constitution and the laws of the country.
"in the context of the parliament meeting, the prime minister himself has stated that it will reconvene.
he never said that parliament would not convene.
"for me, the king's call is in line with the government's intention to have the parliament meeting when the time is suitable to ensure democratic processes are upheld," the international trade and industry minister said on thursday (june 17).
he said the country cannot afford to see its healthcare system collapse, adding that continuous efforts to contain the spread of covid-19 have so far been successful.
"we have rolled out two vaccination programmes – the national covid-19 immunisation programme and the public-private partnership immunisation programme for the industries (pikas) – with the aim to accelerate the process towards achieving herd immunity," he said.
azmin added that tan sri muhyiddin yassin had never taken any unilateral action by himself.
"in the national security council meetings, leaders of all states are involved for their views to be heard before decisions are made.
"health director-general tan sri dr noor hisham abdullah had said in may that if we did not take stern action, the number of daily covid-19 cases might reach up to 13, 000, according to forecasts using r-naught (r0) and susceptible-exposed-infectious-removed (seir) models.
"but, as you can see, on june 14, only 4, 900 new covid-19 cases were recorded.
"this shows that steps taken by the government to battle covid-19 have been effective," he said.
azmin also said the implementation of the various movement control orders and supporting the healthcare sector through the allocation of billions of ringgit are to ensure that they do not collapse.
"in september, based on the same seir model, dr noor hisham forecast that the number of covid-19 cases might reach up to 40, 000 daily.
"if that happens, our healthcare system will collapse.
"as a responsible government that consults experts for their recommendations before decisions are made, the decisions made are for the priority of the people and country.
"i'm glad that the efforts have resulted in success shared by everyone," said azmin after checking out the pikas programme at bukit jawi golf resort here.
on wednesday (june 16), the king called for parliament to be reconvened as soon as possible.
istana negara comptroller of the royal household datuk ahmad fadil shamsuddin said that yang di-pertuan agong al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah conveyed this after looking at all the views presented by the political leaders, the special independent committee on emergency and experts as well as government agencies.
a statement issued said it was to allow the emergency ordinance and the national recovery plan to be debated by members of the dewan rakyat.
his majesty also called on the government to act decisively to simplify bureaucracy and speed up the covid-19 vaccination process in order for the country to achieve herd immunity as early as possible.
tags / keywords:
azmin ali
                                                                ,
                                                                                                parliament
                                                                ,
                                                                                                reconvene
                                                                ,
                                                                                                yang di-pertuan agong



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
a delhi man, 25, was arrested here on wednesday for allegedly killing his wife and later misleading investigators by cooking up a false story, police said.
vikas killed his wife priyanka as she had objected to his extramarital relationship with one of his sisters-in-law, they said.
the couple also had differences over issues related to taking care of their newborn, they said.
on tuesday, vikas had an argument with his wife, and in the night, he stabbed her to death with a knife, police said.
after killing her, vikas made an acquaintance of his call the police control room (pcr).
he stated that a thief entered his house in south delhi's ranhola area and killed his wife, they said.
on reaching the spot, police found stab injuries to the woman's neck.
her body was on a bed, police said.
they said a case of murder was registered.
when vikas was questioned, he initially said a thief had entered the house and escaped from one of the upper floors after killing his wife, deputy commissioner of police (outer) parvinder singh said.
'during the course of investigation, it was revealed that at that time priyanka and vikas were sleeping in the same room with their newborn.
the version narrated by vikas was, however, not found to be convincing.
the spot was carefully examined, which revealed that neither the main gate nor the other doors of the house were tampered from outside,' he said.
when vikas was questioned about minor injuries on his body, he could not give any satisfactory explanation and after sustained interrogation, vikas revealed that he had killed his wife as she used to frequently object to his extramarital affair, singh said.
he also had differences with his wife over taking care of the baby, the officer said.
'on tuesday, vikas had an argument with his wife and to teach her a lesson, he bought a cutter knife blade and stabbed her during the night.
thereafter, in order to save himself, he cooked up a false story and got a person known to him make a pcr call that some thief entered his house and murdered his wife,' the dcp said.
vikas, who previously worked as a cab driver, was not found involved in any other case, police said, adding the knife was recovered on his instance.
(inputs from pti)burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore catch up on the hottest topics on the straits times' weekday talk show.
the big story, broadcast every weekday at 5.
30pm on facebook and youtube, has reporters and senior editors discussing the top stories of the day.
the show is helmed by multimedia correspondent hairianto diman and assistant video editor olivia quay, and airs live from st's digital studio.
there were 14 confirmed covid-19 cases as at tuesday noon (june 15).
all were locally transmitted within the community.
there were no imported cases, the first such instance since june 29, 2020. meanwhile, long queues formed at the temporary covid-19 testing area at block 125a bukit merah view on tuesday, after the site was opened to residents.
set up on monday, the site was intended for the mandatory testing of about 85 stallholders at 116 bukit merah view after a new cluster formed at the nearby 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
separately, with the covid-19 vaccination exercise under way, companies in singapore may have different operating procedures for staff planning to get their jabs.
a number have rolled out initiatives to support the national vaccination programme, while others are not as supportive.
mr alvin goh, executive director of the singapore human resources institute shares his views on this matter.
also on the show football heavyweights france and germany are set to face off at euro 2020 on tuesday night.
st sports correspondent sazali abdul aziz weighs in the teams' performances in the competition and predicts the winner of this match.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore former supreme court judge goh joon seng, who had served on singapore's council of presidential advisers (cpa) for more than a decade, died of cancer on tuesday afternoon (june 15).
he was 86, and is survived by his wife and two sons.
born in china, mr goh was first admitted as a lawyer here in 1963, and his practice as senior partner at goh poh & partners consisted mainly of insurance and building cases.
he was appointed a supreme court judge in october 1990. he had read law at the then university of singapore.
he attended holy innocent's english school from 1948 to 1953 it was renamed montfort school in 1958. during his time on the bench, he built up a strong reputation for his decisions and mediation skills, and was well-liked by lawyers for his gentle and courteous manner.
after retiring as a judge, mr goh became a consultant to law firm lee and lee and also continued to serve the public in various capacities.
for instance, he was tasked with chairing the three-member commission of inquiry set up to investigate the escape of jemaah islamiah terrorist mas selamat kastari from the whitley road detention centre in 2008. he had also played an instrumental role as the founding chairman of numerous mediation bodies here, including the singapore mediation centre (smc), the singapore chamber of maritime arbitration (scma) as well as the former consumer mediation unit (cmu), which handled customer complaints that banks are unable to resolve on their own.
described by former chief justice chan sek keong as an "approachable, friendly and unassuming judge who is mr affability himself", mr goh was appointed the chairman of the smc when it was launched in 1997 to resolve disputes through mediation.
he played a key role in overseeing the growth and development of mediation services in singapore until he stepped down from the position in 2003. justice belinda ang saw ean, who is smc's chair, said singapore owes a lot of its reputation as a centre for mediation to mr goh.
"what was once a little-known form of dispute resolution has become established thanks to his guidance and stewardship.
.
.
those who knew him will remember that he was a gentleman through and through.
"he was also founding chairman of the financial industry disputes resolution centre (fidrec) from 2005 to 2017, which was set up to sort out disputes between consumers and institutions and incorporates the cmu and the insurance disputes resolution organisation (idro).
during his time at fidrec, mr goh oversaw the resolution of complaints related to investments that unravelled after united states investment bank lehman brothers went belly up in 2008. he was also a member of the council of presidential advisers from 2008 to april this year, and had chaired the presidential council for religious harmony from 2005 to 2017. for his contributions, he was awarded the public service star in the 2006 national day awards, as well as the meritorious service medal in 2016. president halimah yacob on tuesday said mr goh made many valuable contributions as a member of the cpa.
"he was meticulous and known for his attention to details, and was often counted upon to provide the legal perspective to the issues at hand," she said.
she added that mr goh's tenure in the cpa also coincided with a period when singapore's reserves protection framework was put to the test, first during the global financial crisis in 2008 and then most recently during the covid-19 pandemic.
"on both occasions, mr goh and the cpa provided wise counsel on the proposals to draw upon our past reserves to manage the crises.
"chief justice sundaresh menon also said on tuesday that mr goh was a greatly respected judge who was admired and liked in equal measure by those who served with him and those who appeared before him.
"this was a time of much change in the profession, and many at the bar will remember it as a challenging period.
joon seng did his part in implementing the many reforms of the time, but always with kindness, and he came to be known to many of us as the gentle face of justice.
"in a statement, home affairs and law minister k.  shanmugam said that mr goh was a very committed volunteer with the volunteer special constabulary (vsc), where he served for 23 years, including two years as its commander.
the vsc was formed immediately after world war ii, in 1946, to assist regular police officers.
"he was a wonderful person, and had great judicial temperament.
it was always a pleasure to appear in his court.
he was very kind to counsel, was patient, had a keen sense of right and wrong.
.
.
his passing is a considerable loss for singapore," said mr shanmugam.
minister for culture, community and youth and second minister for law edwin tong said that mr goh had left a lasting impression on him when he was a young lawyer and appeared before him in several of his early cases.
"i learnt a lot from him, from always being on top of each case, the way he reasoned the cases before him to the empathy he showed to the accused persons and their families.
he was someone with a strong head and a generous heart, and mixed them both to find the balance of justice," said mr tong.
he added that mr goh also struck him as someone who always had singapore's interests at heart.
when their paths crossed after he took office at the ministry of law, and when mr goh was scma chairman, mr goh also discussed several key questions with him, including how jobs can be created for singaporeans, and how singapore can be positioned as a maritime and dispute resolution hub.
senior judge chao hick tin, chairman of scma, said mr goh had played an instrumental role in scma's growth as its founding chairman from 2009 to 2019.
"it is because of his outstanding leadership, dedication, and contributions that scma has made remarkable progress since its inception in 2009," said justice chao.
the montfort school and montfort alumni association added that mr goh actively participated in alumni activities and supported school fund-raisers, and even lent his legal skills to writing the alumni's constitution.
holland-bukit timah grc mp christopher de souza, a partner at lee and lee, said mr goh was a role model to many lawyers in the firm.
"mr goh had a brilliant legal mind and a kind countenance.
.
.
he would freely share his deep knowledge and insights into legal cases whenever we approached him.
his values of diligence and stewardship will remain with the firm, and its lawyers, for a long time.
we deeply mourn his passing.
"the funeral will be held next monday (june 21).
correction note: an earlier version of this article had used a picture which wrongly identified justice tay yong kwang as mr goh joon seng.
we are sorry for the error.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
good evening!
catch up on some of the main headlines on wednesday, june 16.  dining in at f&b outlets was scheduled to resume on june 21 if the situation remained under control.
read more hereconducted once every 10 years, the census is the largest national survey on singapore's population.
read more herethis is a first for the nation and a ground-breaking development for its maritime heritage.
read more herethe mall, which has 400 retailers, reopened its doors at 10am.
read more hereof the linked cases, 10 had already been quarantined, while the other six were detected through surveillance.
read more heresales across all pharmacies are currently limited to 10 kits per person.
read more hereover the last week, sultan abdullah ahmad shah had granted audiences to political party leaders across the divide.
read more herefrenchman christopher bousigues, 45, has just arrived to assume his post, and is under a stay-home notice.
read more herelim tze peng turns 100 in september, but he is not one to let his age or a pandemic, for that matter get in the way of his art.
read more herethe celebrity meal will launch in singapore next monday.
read more herejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing/taipei: china does not tolerate foreign forces intervening in taiwan issues and has to make strong responses to such acts of "collusion", the government said on wednesday (jun 16) after the island reported the largest incursion to date of chinese aircraft.
twenty-eight chinese air force aircraft, including fighters and nuclear-capable bombers, entered taiwan's air defence identification zone (adiz) on tuesday, the island's government said.
the incident came after the group of seven leaders issued a joint statement on sunday scolding china for a series of issues and underscored the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, comments china condemned as "slander".
asked at a news conference whether the military activity was related to the g7 statement, ma xiaoguang, spokesman for china's taiwan affairs office, said it was taiwan's government that was to blame for tensions.
beijing believes the island's government is working with foreign countries to seek formal independence.
"we will never tolerate attempts to seek independence or wanton intervention in the taiwan issue by foreign forces, so we need to make a strong response to these acts of collusion," ma said.
democratically-ruled taiwan has complained over the last few months of repeated missions by china's air force near the island, concentrated in the southwestern part of its air defence zone near the taiwan-controlled pratas islands.
however, this time not only did the chinese aircraft fly in an area close to the pratas islands, but the bombers and some of the fighters flew around the southern part of taiwan near the bottom tip of the island, according to taiwan's defence ministry.
the fly-by happened on the same day the us navy said a carrier group had entered the disputed south china sea.
a senior official familiar with taiwan's security planning told reuters that officials believed china was sending a message to the united states as the carrier group sailed through the bashi channel, which separates taiwan from the philippines and leads into the south china sea.
"it's strategic intimidation of the us military.
they wanted the united states to notice their capability and for them to restrain their behaviour.
"taiwan needs in particular to pay attention to the fact that china's military has started conducting drills in taiwan's southeastern adiz, the source added.
this "to a certain degree was targeting our deployments in the east and increasing air defence pressure around our adiz", the source said.
taiwan's east coast is home to two major air bases with hangers dug out of the side of mountains to provide protection in the event of a chinese assault.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
beijing: the first astronauts for china's new space station are set to blast off on thursday (jun 17) for the country's longest crewed mission to date, a landmark step in establishing beijing as a major space power.
the trio will launch on a long march-2f rocket for the tiangong station, where they will spend three months.
liftoff is expected at 9.
22am local time from the jiuquan launch centre in northwest china's gobi desert.
their shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the tianhe main section of the space station, which was placed in orbit on apr 29. the module has separate living spaces for each of them, a treadmill for exercise, and a communication centre for emails and video calls with ground control.
it is china's first crewed mission in nearly five years.
the launch represents a matter of huge prestige in china, as beijing prepares to mark the 100th anniversary of the ruling communist party on july 1 with a massive propaganda campaign.
to prepare for the mission, the crew has undergone more than 6,000 hours of training, including hundreds of underwater somersaults in full space gear.
the mission's commander is nie haisheng, a decorated air force pilot in the people's liberation army who has already participated in two space missions.
the two other members are also members of the military.
over the next year and a half, another 11 missions are planned to complete the construction of tiangong in orbit.
the first crew will test and maintain the systems onboard, conduct spacewalks and undertake scientific experiments.
china's space ambitions have been fuelled in part by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station, a collaboration between the united states, russia, canada, europe and japan.
it is due for retirement after 2024, even though nasa said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong is to be much smaller than the iss, and expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on tuesday (15 june) confirmed 14 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,315. all of them are local cases in the community, of whom nine of 10 linked cases belong to the 115 bukit merah view market & food centre cluster.
the cluster now has 25 cases.
tuesday marks the 51st consecutive day with local cases reported as well as the first time since 29 june last year to have no imported cases reported.
"amongst the new cases today, four are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 10 were symptomatic," said the moh.
the four unlinked cases in the community are:a 41-year-old filipino woman who is a foreign domestic worker (received first dose of vaccine)a 36-year-old singaporean woman who is a homemakera 30-year-old singaporean woman who works as a sales representative at imperva singaporea 35-year-old singaporean man who is currently unemployedseparately, one case has been linked to the 36-year-old woman, who is his family member and household contact.
he is a 35-year-old singaporean man who works as a senior executive at nets.
the ministry noted that the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 93 in the week before to 60 in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 10 in the week before to 18 in the past week.
the moh also announced the closure of two clusters – "case 63290" and white sands – as there have been no cases linked to them for the past two incubation periods, or 28 days.
singapore currently has 44 active covid-19 clusters.
the cluster was first linked to a 74-year-old singaporean man who works at a sundry store at the food centre.
the fully-vaccinated man was confirmed to have covid-19 on 9 june.
three of the nine new cases linked to the cluster work at the food centre and had been quarantined earlier:a 37-year-old female india national who is a food stall vendora 77-year-old singaporean man who is a food stall vendor (fully vaccinated)a 39-year-old male india national who is a food stall vendor (fully vaccinated)of the remaining six, most are family members or household contacts, or both, of cases in the cluster:a 30-year-old male india national who works as a supervisor at keong hong construction (quarantined earlier)a 33-year-old female permanent resident who is a cleaner employed by sats facility management (quarantined earlier)a 35-year-old singaporean woman who is a teacher at kidscampus at chai cheea 87-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree; frequently visits 115 and 116 bukit merah view (link to cluster cases not mentioned)a 35-year-old male india national who works as a sales executive at halnaz frozen goods (link to cluster cases not mentioned)a 72-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree (fully vaccinated, link to cluster cases not mentioned)the food centre, initially planned for a 13 to 15 june closure, will now be closed to members of the public till 26 june, said the moh on tuesday.
this is due to the detection of more cases amongst the market and food centre staff and their close contacts, which suggests that there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission", the ministry noted.
all staff and tenants who have been working at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and are tested during quarantine.
the moh said that special testing operations have commenced on monday for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
free covid-19 testing has also been extended to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june, it added.
these testing operations are in progress, said the moh.
"all visitors to 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june are advised to monitor their health closely, and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their date of visit.
they are encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell," the ministry stressed.
with 17 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on tuesday, 61,911 cases – or 99.
4 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 137 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while two of them are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 233 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 96 confirmed cases reported from 9 to 15 june, 40 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 41 have tested negative, and 15 serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:'not possible to have fair hearing': woman without mask at mbsman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
mingtiandiasia real estate and outbound investment newsa password will be e-mailed to you.
username


e-mail



2021/06/16 by michael cole leave a comment bund soho is the firm's most successful project in shanghaijust 10 months after the covid-19 pandemic derailed an attempt to take private one of china's largest commercial developers, blackstone group has agreed to acquire soho china through a new deal worth hk$23.
7 billion ($3 billion), according to a stock market announcement on wednesday.
the beijing-based developer told the hong kong exchange that funds managed by blackstone have agreed to pay hk$5.
00 each for the company's 5.
2 billion issued shares, which would give the us fund manager the rights to soho china's portfolio of nine office properties in shanghai and beijing.
a pair of companies controlled by zhang xin, soho's chief executive and the wife of chairman pan shiyi, have already agreed to sell 2.
85 billion shares in the developer to blackstone, giving the private equity giant a 54.
93 percent holding in the company.
pan has no direct shareholding in the company.
"we're thrilled to announce this investment in soho china to expand our footprint in china," blackstone real estate managing director justin wai said in a statement.
"china is a key market for our asia business where we've built a diverse real estate portfolio across office, retail, logistics, and residential.
"in its statement, soho said that the company has established a committee composed of its independent board directors to review the blackstone offer before advising independent shareholders regarding the terms of the deal and whether they should be accepted.
following completion of the transaction, blackstone intends to retain the stock market listing for soho china and does not intend to pursue any compulsory acquisition strategies.
companies controlled by zhang are set to maintain a 9 percent stake in the firm.
the buyout offer represents a 99.
5 percent premium over soho china's average trading price of hk$2.
51 per share over the thirty days ending yesterday, when trading was halted.
soho founders zhang xin (left) and pan shiyi have some reasons to smilehowever, that markup also reflects the realities of china's commercial real estate world post-pandemic, with soho china's share price having slid around 15 percent since the beginning of 2020. that slide may explain in part the disparity in value from last year's discussions, with the offer unveiled on wednesday shaving nearly 24 percent off the reported hk$31 billion value of the proposal revealed in march of last year.
in announcing an end to its privatisation discussions in august 2020, soho china said the talks had concluded without the two sides having reached agreement on terms.
this year's offer is being managed by goldman sachs, according to today's announcement.
during 2020, soho china notched revenue of rmb 2.
2 billion ($342 million), an increase of about 19 percent from the previous year.
but the company's pre-tax profit of rmb 1.
6 billion marked a 17 percent slide from the 2019 total.
since the earlier buyout attempt, two of blackstone's senior executives associated with the deal have left the company, with former head of china real estate tim wang having headed for the exit in september of last year, before joining glp just two months ago.
former blackstone managing director yan yan, who had served as president of soho china during a more than two-decade career with the company before joining the us private equity firm, was announced as a strategic advisor to china's hillhouse capital in january of this year.
in its statement wednesday, blackstone said it looks forward to working with soho's founders and management in optimising the company's assets and pointed to the potential for recovery in the shanghai and beijing office markets.
the group has continued to be active in china's real estate market over the past year, including closing on a $1.
1 billion purchase of a guangzhou warehouse project in january.
with a flair for public appearances and dramatic designs for their buildings, zhang and pan have made soho china into one of the mainland's most prominent developers, with the company having employed star architect zaha hadid to plan their curvy wangjing soho in beijing.
after founding the company in 1995, zhang and pan achieved early financial success developing strata-title office projects to sell units to wealthy individuals in northern china and elsewhere in the country.
having expanded their strata office model to shanghai in the early 2000s, however, the company later struggled to build a base of rental income following a shift to a build to hold strategy.
with the recent completion of a new project on qiananmen avenue in beijing, soho china's portfolio measures 826,406 square metres (8.
9 million square feet) of space.
that group of assets generated rmb 1.
4 billion in rental revenue last year, despite three of the five beijing properties operating at occupancy of between 60 and 68 percent as of 31 december.
in shanghai, bund soho stood at 97 percent occupancy at the end of 2020, while the other three properties ranged from 82 to 87 percent.
share this nowfiled under: finance tagged with: blackstone, china, cm-ml, daily-sp, featured, pan shiyi, soho china, zhang xinyour email address will not be published.
required fields are marked *comment name * email * website  

this site uses akismet to reduce spam.
learn how your comment data is processed.
more mtd tv videosmore sponsored features>>

                        coronavirus latest news updates: biological e's made-in-india vaccine, which has already entered phase iii trial, is expected to have 90 percent effectiveness against covid
                    
                            representational image.
ap
                        coronavirus latest news updatecoronavirus latest news updatejapan said on thursday it will make a vaccine passport available from next month for japanese travellers, as governments around the world experiment with ways to relaunch tourism and business trips.
the certificate will be paper-based rather than digital and will be issued by local governments from sometime next month.
the country's borders are closed to almost all foreign arrivals, though the rules will be relaxed for the olympic games, which open in tokyo on july 23. coronavirus latest news update: vaccination policybiological e's made-in-india vaccine is expected to have 90 per cent effectiveness against covid and will likely be a gamechanger in the fight against the pandemic, nk arora, chairperson of the centre's covid working group, told ndtv on thirsday.
he also said that the vaccine is entering phase 3 trials and could be available by october.
coronavirus latest news update:the active cases declined to 8,26,740 comprising 2.
78 per cent of the total infections, while the national covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.
93 per cent.
a net decline of 38,692 cases has been recorded in the covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.
this was the lowest number india has seen in at least past 71 days.
coronavirus latest news update:a single day rise of 67,208 new coronavirus infections were recorded taking india's total tally of covid-19 cases to 2,97,00,313, while the active cases declined to 8,26,740, the lowest after 71 days, according to the union health ministry data updated on thursday.
the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,81,903 with 2,330 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showedcoronavirus latest news updatecoronavirus latest news updatejapan said on thursday it will make a vaccine passport available from next month for japanese travellers, as governments around the world experiment with ways to relaunch tourism and business trips.
the certificate will be paper-based rather than digital and will be issued by local governments from sometime next month.
the country's borders are closed to almost all foreign arrivals, though the rules will be relaxed for the olympic games, which open in tokyo on july 23. coronavirus latest news update: vaccination policybiological e's made-in-india vaccine is expected to have 90 per cent effectiveness against covid and will likely be a gamechanger in the fight against the pandemic, nk arora, chairperson of the centre's covid working group, told ndtv on thirsday.
he also said that the vaccine is entering phase 3 trials and could be available by october.
coronavirus latest news update:the active cases declined to 8,26,740 comprising 2.
78 per cent of the total infections, while the national covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.
93 per cent.
a net decline of 38,692 cases has been recorded in the covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.
this was the lowest number india has seen in at least past 71 days.
coronavirus latest news update:a single day rise of 67,208 new coronavirus infections were recorded taking india's total tally of covid-19 cases to 2,97,00,313, while the active cases declined to 8,26,740, the lowest after 71 days, according to the union health ministry data updated on thursday.
the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,81,903 with 2,330 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed coronavirus latest news updates: biological e's made-in-india vaccine, which has already entered phase iii trial, is expected to have 90 percent effectiveness against covid.
a single day rise of 67,208 new coronavirus infections were recorded taking india's total tally of covid-19 cases to 2,97,00,313, while the active cases declined to 8,26,740, the lowest after 71 days, according to the union health ministry data updated on thursday.
the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,81,903 with 2,330 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showedthe active cases declined to 8,26,740 comprising 2.
78 per cent of the total infections, while the national covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.
93 per cent.
a net decline of 38,692 cases has been recorded in the covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.
as many as 19,31,249 tests were conducted on wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of covid-19 in the country to 38,52,38,220. the daily positivity rate was recorded 3.
48 per cent .
it has been less than 5 per cent for 10 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has declined to 3.
99 per cent.
recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 35th consecutive day.
the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,84,91,670, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.
29 per cent, the data stated.
cumulatively, 26,55,19,251 covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.
india's covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on august 7, 30 lakh on august 23, 40 lakh on september 5 and 50 lakh on september 16.  it went past 60 lakh on september 28, 70 lakh on october 11, crossed 80 lakh on october 29, 90 lakh on november 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on december 19.  india crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on 4 may
                updated date:
                
                    june 17, 2021 11:04:19 ist
                

                        tags:
                    
                the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
coronavirus news updates: over 26 crore doses have been provided to states and uts so far, through the government of india channel and through direct state procurement category, the health ministry said
            
                coronavirus news updates: the tally of covid-19 cases in mumbai rose to 7,15,146, while the toll reached 15,146. 









            sign up for a weekly curated briefing of the most important strategic affairs stories from across the world.
firstpostsectionplustoolsappsnetwork18 sites copyright © 2021.  firstpost all rights reserved.
ryan law among five directors detained under national security legislation imposed by beijinglast modified on thu 17 jun 2021 01.
58 edthong kong national security police have arrested the editor-in-chief and four other directors of the apple daily newspaper in early morning raids involving hundreds of officers, over their role in the publication of dozens of articles alleged to be part of a conspiracy to collude with foreign forces.
the city's security chief, john lee, accused those arrested of using "journalistic work as a tool to endanger national security", and issued a chilling warning to residents and other media.
"normal journalists are different from these people," lee said.
"please keep a distance from them.
"the police force's national security department said the five directors had been arrested on suspicion of collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security, through articles which police said called for sanctions on hong kong and mainland china.
all were arrested at their homes, at around 7am.
police also searched apple daily's newsroom and its offices, saying the warrant covered "the power of searching and seizure of journalistic materials".
"the operation, still ongoing, aims at gathering evidence for a case of suspected contravention of the national security law," it said.
those arrested were named by apple daily as editor-in-chief, ryan law; the chief executive officer, cheung kim-hung; the chief operating officer, chow tat-kuen; the deputy chief editor, chan puiman; and the chief executive editor, cheung chi-wai.
police also froze hk$18 million (us $2.
3 million) in assets of three companies, apple daily limited, apple daily printing limited and ad internet limited.
parent company, next digital, announced the suspension of trading in its shares before markets opened on thursday.
the police operation is a significant escalation in the government's moves to stifle hong kong's press, of which the pro-democracy tabloid was widely considered to be a primary target.
senior superintendent steve li kwai-wah, head of the police's national security division, said there was "very strong evidence that the questionable articles played a very crucial part in the conspiracy, which provided ammunition for foreign countries, institutions and organisations to impose sanctions," adding that those arrested played "a very important role" in their publication.
the articles reportedly date back to 2019.  authorities have made repeated assurances since the implementation of the controversial and wide-ranging national security law in june 2020 that it was not retroactive.
li said the police valued freedom of the press.
"we are not targeting the media, but only an organisation that is allegedly violating article 29 of the national security law. "
he warned apple daily staff not to reoffend, and other journalists not to bring suspicion upon themselves, according to the hong kong free press.
in a press conference on thursday afternoon, lee, issued a further warning to the city's press to distance themselves from their apple daily colleagues.
"you should not collude with these perpetrators.
do not play cahoots with them, otherwise you will pay a hefty price.
distance yourself from them otherwise all you will be left with are regrets," he said.
lee refused to say what form the offending articles took – news reports or opinion – or to answer long running concerns over how the national security law applies to media.
"do your journalistic work as freely as you like in accordance with the law, provided you do not conspire or have any intention to break hong kong law, and certainly not the hong kong national security law," he said.
the owner of the paper, pro-democracy campaigner and tycoon jimmy lai, has been in jail since late last year on charges relating to the 2019 protests and allegations of national security offences.
apple daily livestreamed the police raid on the office, which showed officers leading law into the building, apparently with his hands tied behind his back.
most employees weren't at work yet, but those there were moved to the building's canteen on another floor, away from the search of the newsroom.
the paper published a photo of what it said was a police officer searching through a reporter's computer.
the national security law was imposed by beijing, with the hong kong government's blessing, in june last year, and has since led to the arrests of more than 100 individuals, including 54 over the holding of democratic primary polls, an informal pre-election event often held by political parties of all stripes.
politicians and activists were among those arrested, and most were denied bail.
lai is among the most high profile of those arrested under the law.
he was charged a third time under the law in april, accused of foreign collusion in relation to activist andy li's attempt to flee to taiwan by boat last year.
his assets were also frozen.
lai has been a vocal opponent of the crackdown on the pro-democracy movement, and apple daily has produced extensive critical journalism.
hong kong's police commissioner has accused apple daily of creating hatred and dividing society, while pro-beijing media has called for it to be shut down.
thursday marked the second raid on its newsroom.
earlier this month, law told agence france-presse he was facing "the greatest crisis since i took up the post over three years ago".
steven butler, asia program coordinator of the committee to protect journalists, said the arrests destroyed "any remaining fiction that hong kong supports freedom of the press".
"china, which controls hong kong, may be able to eliminate the paper, which it sees as an annoying critic, but only at a steep price to be paid by the people of hong kong, who had enjoyed decades of free access to information. "

they've raised salaries and promised quicker promotions.
but the world's biggest securities firms and banks are still struggling to retain junior investment bankers in asia, challenging their expansion plans for a region that's growing faster than almost anywhere else.
recruiters and executives say the exodus is in some ways more difficult to stem than in new york and london, where analysts and associates have rebelled against the industry's work-till-you-drop culture.
in asia's biggest hubs, young employees are more likely to leave because they think they can earn more -- and climb the corporate ladder faster -- at one of the many fintech and investment firms that have sprouted up to tap the region's buoyant economies and swelling piles of wealth.
the challenge is particularly acute in china and hong kong as foreign firms ramp up hiring to take advantage of a financial opening in asia's largest economy, competing with each other as well as the local startup scene.
"the whole industry is running into a pretty big supply and demand issue, and i don't think this is going to be alleviated any time soon," mark leung, jpmorgan chase & co. 's chief executive officer for china, said in a bloomberg television interview.
the u. s.  lender is among banks including goldman sachs group inc. , credit suisse group ag and hsbc holdings plc.
hiring hundreds of staff for their push into china.
while it's hard to quantify turnover with any certainty, an informal bloomberg news poll of executives at four global securities firms found that anywhere between 13% to 15% of investment banking analysts and associates left their roles this year, roughly double the average in previous years.
that's in line with estimates for the u. s.  and higher than the u. k. , according to executives at recruiting firms.
exits have picked up despite annual pay raises of 25% to 30% since 2019 for hong kong-based bankers covering in-demand sectors like technology and health care, said executives who oversee groups or the region, asking not to be named discussing private information.
the increments have been more subdued for southeast asia where attrition is also rising, one of them said.
jonathan lam left hsbc holdings plc's investment bank in hong kong in the middle of last year to join butler, a home concierge company he helped start that offers personalized services ranging from housekeeping to fixing washing machines and hosting dinner parties.
it was the feeling of making an impact and "owning something" that drove lam to quit his debt capital markets job right after a promotion, he said.
the prospect of a financial windfall also helped.
"with banking you can make good money in the short term, but with startups, if you grind it through, it will lead to big fortunes," said lam, 30, who founded butler with alumni of goldman sachs group inc.  and wells fargo & co.  the startup completed a funding round last year and has 30 employees.
asia's economic rise has made it one of the world's most attractive regions for entrepreneurs.
its share of global startup investments rose to about 40% in 2015-2017, up from 10% a decade earlier, according to mckinsey.
it's home to more than a third of the world's unicorns, the nickname for startups valued at $1 billion or more.
the attrition is made more acute by the fact that finance is still a growth industry in asia and is smaller relative to the overall economy than in the u. s.  and europe.
more than half of finance firms in mainland china surveyed by recruitment firm michael page expect to increase their headcount by about 11% this year, on average.
financial services will likely be the most-active recruiter in hong kong and the second most-active in singapore, the poll showed.
some smaller hedge funds and money managers in hong kong are offering double the salary to lure talent, two quantitative trading analysts at a wall street bank said based on approaches from headhunters.
private equity firms, where employees get a share of profits, have also been active recruiters of junior talent in the past year, including bain capital, pag and hillhouse capital, one of the people said.
in singapore, opportunities are sprouting at hedge funds and private equity firms as well as a new breed of fintech and digital banking firms, according to lim chai leng, a senior director at recruiting firm randstad singapore.
startups and smaller boutique firms can offer flexible working and other benefits that established players have struggled to keep up with, said james carss, managing director at executive search firm nrg in the u. k.  the churn rate in the u. k.  is three to four months behind asia, but is likely to catch up, he said.
big techbig technology firms are also drawing from the banks.
morgan stanley vice president shiyi lin last month left to join the strategic investment group at alibaba group holding ltd. , according her linkedin page.
in singapore, jack ma's ant group co. , southeast asia's most-valuable startup grab holdings inc.  and its most valuable company sea ltd.  are setting up digital banks.
daniel yuan, a yale-educated former analyst at goldman sachs, left in 2019 to become chief of staff at online finance company futu holdings ltd.  while he credits goldman for teaching him everything he knows about finance, he found his ability to move up the ladder too rigid.
"i knew exactly what i needed to do and how long i needed to keep doing this in order to advance my career at goldman," yuan said.
"at a leaner and more entrepreneurial corporate like futu, there's a lot of flexibility around what i can do, especially in my capacity as the chief of staff.
"banks are starting to notice.
one example is lam's old firm, hsbc, which counts hong kong as its largest market.
the lender, which is in a midst of a major pivot to asia, last month promised a shorter career path for new associates, offering promotions after three years instead of four.
it also pledged to boost pay.
jpmorgan is also hiring more junior bankers and staff globally.
globally, lenders are raising pay for junior employees, enforcing curfews and hiring more to prevent defections and ease discontent as a jump in deals during the pandemic intensified the focus on work-life issues.
wall street was set abuzz earlier this year by a leaked presentation from junior analysts at goldman sachs that detailed their grueling workload and punishing hours.
spokespeople for goldman, hsbc and jpmorgan declined to comment for this story.
"in asia, junior bankers are more likely to leave for career opportunities that they see as more financially attractive," said john mullally, regional director at robert walters in hong kong.
"the long hours and stress of banking careers are a factor, but just not as much as it is for their counterparts in europe and the u. s. "for some beleaguered bankers, the exodus of their colleagues at the same time as dealmaking is thriving, is taking its toll.
over the past 12 months, mergers and acquisitions have jumped 30% in asia pacific, while initial public offerings have risen 44%, according to data compiled by bloomberg.
an associate at jpmorgan, who asked not to be named, said his workload doubled after a colleague quit for a financial technology firm in december, leaving him to work 18 hours a day, on average, without a break for almost two months.
he's now actively looking for a job at a buy-side firm, he said, looking for a place with less hierarchy and more opportunities for career advancement.
this story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text.
only the headline has been changed.
never miss a story!
stay connected and informed with mint.
download 
our app now!!
log in to our website to save your bookmarks.
it'll just take a moment.
oops!
looks like you have exceeded the limit to bookmark the image.
remove some to bookmark this image.
your session has expired, please login again.
you are now subscribed to our newsletters.
in case you can't find any email from our side, please check the spam folder.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on tuesday (15 june) confirmed 14 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,315. all of them are local cases in the community, of whom nine of 10 linked cases belong to the 115 bukit merah view market & food centre cluster.
the cluster now has 25 cases.
tuesday marks the 51st consecutive day with local cases reported as well as the first time since 29 june last year to have no imported cases reported.
"amongst the new cases today, four are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 10 were symptomatic," said the moh.
the four unlinked cases in the community are:a 41-year-old filipino woman who is a foreign domestic worker (received first dose of vaccine)a 36-year-old singaporean woman who is a homemakera 30-year-old singaporean woman who works as a sales representative at imperva singaporea 35-year-old singaporean man who is currently unemployedseparately, one case has been linked to the 36-year-old woman, who is his family member and household contact.
he is a 35-year-old singaporean man who works as a senior executive at nets.
the ministry noted that the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 93 in the week before to 60 in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 10 in the week before to 18 in the past week.
the moh also announced the closure of two clusters – "case 63290" and white sands – as there have been no cases linked to them for the past two incubation periods, or 28 days.
singapore currently has 44 active covid-19 clusters.
the cluster was first linked to a 74-year-old singaporean man who works at a sundry store at the food centre.
the fully-vaccinated man was confirmed to have covid-19 on 9 june.
three of the nine new cases linked to the cluster work at the food centre and had been quarantined earlier:a 37-year-old female india national who is a food stall vendora 77-year-old singaporean man who is a food stall vendor (fully vaccinated)a 39-year-old male india national who is a food stall vendor (fully vaccinated)of the remaining six, most are family members or household contacts, or both, of cases in the cluster:a 30-year-old male india national who works as a supervisor at keong hong construction (quarantined earlier)a 33-year-old female permanent resident who is a cleaner employed by sats facility management (quarantined earlier)a 35-year-old singaporean woman who is a teacher at kidscampus at chai cheea 87-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree; frequently visits 115 and 116 bukit merah view (link to cluster cases not mentioned)a 35-year-old male india national who works as a sales executive at halnaz frozen goods (link to cluster cases not mentioned)a 72-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree (fully vaccinated, link to cluster cases not mentioned)the food centre, initially planned for a 13 to 15 june closure, will now be closed to members of the public till 26 june, said the moh on tuesday.
this is due to the detection of more cases amongst the market and food centre staff and their close contacts, which suggests that there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission", the ministry noted.
all staff and tenants who have been working at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and are tested during quarantine.
the moh said that special testing operations have commenced on monday for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
free covid-19 testing has also been extended to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june, it added.
these testing operations are in progress, said the moh.
"all visitors to 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june are advised to monitor their health closely, and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their date of visit.
they are encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell," the ministry stressed.
with 17 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on tuesday, 61,911 cases – or 99.
4 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 137 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while two of them are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 233 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 96 confirmed cases reported from 9 to 15 june, 40 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 41 have tested negative, and 15 serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:'not possible to have fair hearing': woman without mask at mbsman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
singapore: jtc corporation and shell singapore have signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding (mou) to jointly explore the development of a solar farm on part of semakau landfill, both parties announced in a press release on thursday (jun 17).
the mou is supported by the national environment agency (nea) and energy market authority (ema) and was signed at a ceremony on thursday morning.
the solar farm is expected to occupy an area of 60ha and have a capacity of at least 72 megawatt-peak, which is enough to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 37,000 tonnes a year, said the four parties in a joint press release.
the energy produced can power up to 17,500 households for a year.
the farm will also be the first large-scale solar project in singapore where a sanitary landfill is also used for clean energy generation.
this project is aligned with singapore's target to increase solar deployment to at least 2 gigawatt-peak by 2030. if successful, the farm will also help reduce singapore's carbon emissions and meet its growing clean energy needs, noted the press release.
"generating solar energy on this scale on an offshore operational landfill comes with its fair share of complexity and challenges.
this is where the innovation and creativity of a joint task force made up of the various government agencies and shell come into play, to ensure that an optimal balance is achieved," said the press release.
"close collaborations" like these are part of jtc's solarland initiative to optimise available land for solar generation in support of singapore's clean energy switch, said jtc ceo tan boon khai.
"jtc is piloting new sustainable energy innovations with shell to maximise the use of renewable energy solutions for our industries.
this project is an example of how we are tapping available land to double up for solar generation to maximise renewable energy generation," he said.
ms aw kah peng, who is chairman of shell companies in singapore, noted that the project is aligned with the company's 10-year plan to re-purpose its core business, cut down on its own carbon dioxide emissions and help customers decarbonise.
"with a common goal of enabling more and cleaner energy, we look forward to exploring with our partners this opportunity to maximise the use of semakau in a way that is compatible with its primary purpose as a landfill," she added.
shell's pulau bukom energy and chemicals park is also located about 2km northwest of the semakau landfill and working together would allow an "innovative integration" of an intermittent renewable source to bukom, added the release.
nea chief executive officer luke goh noted that the plans will contribute towards the national solar deployment target and complement nea's resource sustainability initiatives.
"nea is happy to support the deployment of a solar farm on semakau landfill," he added.
"semakau landfill remains singapore's only operational landfill.
to preserve its capacity for as long as possible, we are redoubling efforts to reduce waste and close the waste loop.
"ema chief executive ngiam shih chun described solar energy as singapore's "most promising renewable energy source" and a "key switch" for decarbonisation.
"our energy sector is moving towards a cleaner and more sustainable future," he noted.
"given our limited land space, ema has been working with government agencies and industry players on innovative ways to harness more solar energy.
i look forward to the successful implementation of this offshore solar farm on semakau landfill which will demonstrate how we can be creative in our solar deployment.
"next, jtc and shell will jointly conduct a request for information exercise next week to source for innovative solutions from the market.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
welcome to finextra.
we use cookies to help us to deliver our services.
we'll assume you're ok with this, but you may change your preferences at our cookie centre.
please read our privacy policy.
for finextra's free daily newsletter, breaking news and flashes and weekly job board.
uob has become the first bank in singapore to run its latest bond offering using a distributed ledger platform developed by singapore exchange and temasek.
sponsored: [webinar] how to issue cards and get to market faster in a highly competitive marketfor finextra's free daily newsletter, breaking news and flashes and weekly job board.
write a blog post about this story (membership required)


                                14 jun
                            








 1








 3








 14




                                14 jun
                            








 0








 1




                                16 jun
                            








 0








 10








 8




                                10 jun
                            








 0








 14








 16




                                            10 june 2021
                                        








 0








 1




                                            21 may 2021
                                        








 0








 2








 5


dbs, temasek and jpmorgan set up dlt-based payments joint venture28 aprsgx and temasek to develop blockchain-based digital asset trading infrastructure22 januob boosts aml efforts with ai07 dec 2020sgx issues first digital bond01 sep 2020
7 downloads

30 downloads

61 downloads
about finextracommunity rules

                                        register for news
                                        







contact useditorialsales salesregister for news


register







follow us© finextra research 2021terms of useprivacy policycookie centre
kuala lumpur, june 15  malaysian prime minister muhyiddin yassin on tuesday (june 15) said parliament could reconvene by september at the earliest, providing the average number of new daily coronavirus infections falls to under 2,000. malaysia's parliament has been suspended since january after the king declared a national emergency on muhyiddin's advice, to deal with coronavirus outbreaks.
the opposition saw that as an attempt by muhyiddin to shore up his position amid a leadership challenge.
in a televised speech muhyiddin said he was committed to allow parliament to resume its functions "at the appropriate time".
"i will continue to uphold the principles of parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy," he said.
malaysia has reported 4,069 coronavirus deaths and nearly 668,000 cases as of tuesday, the highest number of infections per capita in southeast asia.
the number of daily cases has been greater than 2,000 on most days this year.
the government imposed a nationwide lockdown over most of june to address a fresh surge in infections.
[[nid:532924]]muhyiddin said the government aims to allow all economic sectors to reopen and for malaysians to enjoy more social activities and domestic tourism by the end of the year, when herd immunity is achieved with 80 per cent of the 32 million population fully vaccinated.
until then, it will gradually open up the economy and social activities over four phases based on case numbers, status of the healthcare system and vaccination figures, he said.
about 10 per cent of the population have received at least one vaccine shot as of monday.
the list of economic sectors allowed to reopen will broaden from the second phase onwards, with businesses allowed to deploy up to 80per cent of their workforce, he said.
opinion by frida ghitisupdated 6:47 pm et, wed june 16, 2021 frida ghitis, (@fridaghitis) a former cnn producer and correspondent, is a world affairs columnist.
she is a frequent opinion contributor to cnn, a contributing columnist to the washington post and a columnist for world politics review.
the views expressed in this commentary are her own.
view more opinion on cnn.
(cnn)the visuals, the body language and the setting all converged to help president joe biden achieve what he wanted — not only from his much-hyped summit with russian president vladimir putin — but from a week of pivotal meetings with us allies.
sign up for cnn opinion's new newsletter.
join us on twitter and facebook
everyone knows how important a wedding dress is to a bride on her big day.
many couples choose a theme to make their weddings more memorable, and a couple in indonesia recently decided to go with a hello kitty theme.
a clip of their wedding uploaded on tiktok account @sitifiyah99 on may 25 went viral, garnering over 11 million views and 110,000 comments.
so, what was the buzz all about?
the couple's matching hello kitty outfits.
but that was not the only thing that caught the netizens' attention.
while most people would be overjoyed on their wedding day, there was barely a smile on the bride's face throughout the photoshoot.
in the comments, some tiktok users pointed out that the outfits with hello kitty print resemble pyjamas while others said that the bride looked miserable.
the couple had at least seven outfit changes for the photoshoot, which had a floral setting with a hello kitty backdrop as well as large plushies placed on the dais.
while the couple also changed into traditional wedding attire, the bride still looked sullen in the photos, proving the speculations that she upset about wearing a hello kitty gown wrong.
the tiktok video has since been taken down and the account has been deleted.
mardhiahhaslan@asiaone.
com
singapore, june 15 (reuters) singapore's central bank said on tuesday it has reprimanded the local businesses of insurers aia, prudential and aviva for breaching requirements related to risk management and supervisors' pay.
the monetary authority of singapore (mas) said its investigations found numerous instances where remuneration was paid to supervisors over sales of investment products and life policies, violating its regulations.
a mas reprimand is issued when there are failures in a financial institution that may pose potential risks to its business, market participants and investors.
those reprimanded were aia financial advisers private limited, prudential assurance company singapore, aviva ltd and aviva financial advisers pte ltd.  the companies did not immediately respond to separate requests for comment.
the mas has dealt firmly with these financial institutions "to send a clear message to the industry on the importance of upholding high ethical standards," ho hern shin, deputy managing director, financial supervision, said in a statement.
(reporting by chen lin; editing by martin petty) the displaced sleep packed together under plastic sheeting for protection from myanmar's monsoon rains.
food is short and there are signs of disease spreading, according to people who have fled recent fighting in eastern myanmar's kayah state just one of several conflicts to surge since the feb.  1 coup toppled elected leader aung san suu kyi.
the united nations estimates nearly 110,000 people have been displaced in myanmar's kayah state by the recent violence.
leading chinese construction machinery manufacturer xcmg (she:000425) has formulated and published the industry's first "hoisting supply chain safety development report and initiative" (the "report"), a blockbuster release since xcmg's publication of the "4.
0 sustainability principles for hoisting industry chain" in 2016. forget lash extensions and microblading, try this ayurveda-inspired serum.
finding it increasingly challenging for you to enjoy uninterrupted sleep with singapore's notorious heat?
try this fuss-free method that doesn't involve burning a hole in your pocket.
the ftse 100 was set to fall today in reaction to last night's news that the majority of the us federal reserve's  officials now expect interest rates to rise earlier than forecast, in 2023.   in march, most federal reserve officials had predicted rates would stay at their current levels until at least 2024 but last night said the consensus had now shifted forward thanks to their growing belief in the economic recovery.
while the fed's newfound belief in the strong recovery story should be good for the economy and corporate profits generally, the prospect of tightening monetary policy should lead to investors pulling some of their funds out of stock markets and into less risky assets like bonds as interest rates rise.
fotric produces highly innovative thermal imagers by combining components from world class manufacturers with designing insights from end users and field engineers.
today, we are proudly announcing the release of our latest handheld camera series: the 320m/f and the 340a.
the comic will be turned into a 12-issue seriesthe united states is ending a cambodian aid programme aimed at protecting one of the country's biggest wildlife sanctuaries, citing worsening deforestation and the silencing of those who speak out about the destruction of natural resources.
the u. s.  embassy in phnom penh said in a statement on thursday that it had invested more than $100 million to combat deforestation and despite some progress high rates of illegal logging had continued in the prey lang wildlife sanctuary.
since 2016, prey lang had "lost approximately 38,000 hectares (93,900 acres) of forest, nearly nine percent of its forest cover," it said, accusing cambodian authorities of not adequately prosecuting wildlife crimes or putting a stop to illicit activities.
naho has played a crucial role in fighting japan's two deadly coronavirus waves this year, the worst the country has faced since the pandemic began.
the leitz phone 1 is leica's first self-branded mobile phone, and it'll be a softbank exclusive when it launches in july.
the camera maker isn't afraid to admit that the leitz phone 1 is actually a rebadged aquos r6.
as he counts down the days to his third straight olympics, tonga's famously chiseled flagbearer pita taufatofua is also contemplating offers for a career in movies and documentaries.
a pig that became an unlikely national icon in china after surviving 36 days under rubble from a powerful 2008 earthquake has died at the age of 14, sparking an outpouring of emotion on thursday.
the author talks to helen brown about her prize-winning debut novel, the mistreatment of 'hysterics', french and anglophone feminism, and growing up the daughter of a pop starthe italian son of egyptian and sardinian immigrants came to global attention when he placed second at the 2019 eurovision song contest, but there's so much more to him than meets the eye.
he speaks to roisin o'connor about his new album, ghettolimpo, and why he's still avoiding labelssingapore media outreach 17 june 2021 apol introduced their signature series named sphinx, kraken and behemoth.
apol's strong desire to stay in sync with the latest trends has led them to produce not only top-quality materials for the chair but also all the key features that an ergonomic chair should have.
this would include the 4d adjustable armrest, full length backrest recline, multi-functional tilt mechanism, class 4 hydraulics, aluminum wheelbase and caster wheels.
the addition of thethe milky way moving across the night sky made for a beautiful background for the pack creek fire burning in utah's east on june 12. a timelapse video taken over four and a half hours by temuji nana shows the galaxy and shooting stars while the fire burns through the night.
firefighting authorities said the blaze began in manti-lasal national forest on june 9 due to an abandoned campfire.
the fire had grown to 8,518 acres by june 16.  credit: temujin nana via storyfulspacecraft will dock with main section of chinese space station that was placed in orbit on 29 aprillong bets on most of asia's emerging currencies were trimmed, a reuters poll showed on thursday, as investors weigh the prospect of tighter monetary settings as the u. s.  recovery outperforms, while the covid-19 situation locally is brought under control.
the 13 responses came in before the federal reserve's policy meeting late on wednesday where it stunned by signalling it might raise interest rates as early as 2023, a faster pace than initially assumed.
emerging markets in the past have not fared well with the prospect of u. s.  interest rate hikes, and with the fed opening the door to an accelerated timetable to wean off pandemic-driven monetary stimulus, it could suck funds out of riskier assets and force asia's central banks to tighten quicker.
asian markets opened lower following the negative closing of the us marketslong bets on most of asia's emerging currencies were trimmed, a reuters poll showed on thursday, as investors weigh the prospect of tighter monetary settings as the u. s.  recovery outperforms, while the covid-19 situation locally is brought under control.
the 13 responses came in before the federal reserve's policy meeting late on wednesday where it stunned by signalling it might raise interest rates as early as 2023, a faster pace than initially assumed.
emerging markets in the past have not fared well with the prospect of u. s.  interest rate hikes, and with the fed opening the door to an accelerated timetable to wean off pandemic-driven monetary stimulus, it could suck funds out of riskier assets and force asia's central banks to tighten quicker.
submitted by stomper sallythis story was submitted via facebook.
click here to join our facebook page.
this story was submitted via facebook.
click here to join our facebook page.
a woman decided to support local hawkers by travelling from ang mo kio to maxwell food centre to order chicken rice but was left sorely disappointed.
stomper sally shared that she saw people posting about the chicken rice on facebook, urging for customer support.
however, she believes the meal was not worth the trip.
"i drove all the way from ang mo kio to maxwell food centre to support the hawker and bought a $5 packet of chicken rice," she said.
"to my disappointment, this is what i got.
"not a strand of vegetable in sight.
"[social] media asked for support yet this is far too expensive.
"get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
it was his day off and he was resting at home, nursing a fever after getting his second covid-19 vaccine dose a day earlier.
mr muhammad nazlan was watching tv with his wife on sunday night while their three children were out at the playground, located about 50m in front of his housing board unit.
suddenly, his daughter, 10, burst into their first-storey flat, screaming and crying.
mr muhammad, 34, a pest control technician, told the new paper yesterday: "i could not hear what exactly she was saying.
all i knew was something bad had happened to my son.
"i rushed out with my wife and saw my son lying on the ground, his arm stuck to a lamp post.
my son was unconscious but his eyes were still open, and i thought he was gone.
"his eldest son, 14-year-old muhammad rifqy, was playing football with a friend when both teenagers got an electric shock from a lamp post near the fitness corner at block 63 lorong 5 toa payoh.
the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said it received a call for assistance at 8.
25pm and two people were taken to kk women's and children's hospital.
mr muhammad said his son was initially in the intensive care unit but was moved to a regular ward on monday afternoon.
he said rifqy's friend had been discharged.
while his son is conscious, mr muhammad's friend, mr khairul anuar, 36, said rifqy is "not his old self" yet.
"i have been talking to him through video calls.
he is traumatised and his speech is slurred.
sometimes he talks using one word at a time.
but at least he is slowly recovering," said mr khairul, a grabfood rider.
it could have been much worse, if not for mr muhammad's prompt action.
rifqy had lost consciousness from an electric shock after he went to retrieve a ball that had rolled towards the lamp post.
"when i saw him lying there, i quickly tried to pull him away from the lamp post but his arm was stuck to it," said mr muhammad, who is asthmatic.
"that part of his arm looked like it was burned.
my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless.
i also felt another two shocks, one in my hand and one in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away.
"all i could think of was: if he dies, i also die with him.
"mr muhammad said his son seemed as if he had tensed up, and he felt helpless.
"i felt like a useless father because i wanted to give him cpr (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) but people around me were reminding me not to touch him," he said.
the scdf arrived moments later to tend to his son and the friend.
mr muhammad said his son told him the two had got to know each other three days prior to their sunday meeting, and the boy received a jolt when he touched rifqy.
when tnp visited the scene yesterday afternoon, workers were completing the installation of four new lamp posts.
mr muhammad, whose youngest is a five-year-old boy, said staff from bishan-toa payoh town council (btptc), which manages the estate, had contacted him and offered assistance.
in a statement last night, the town council said it had completed checks to establish the probable cause of the electric shock.
"the btptc licensed electrical worker (lew) noticed a small tear to the insulation of the live wire inside the lamp post.
this would not be visible unless we remove the junction box.
"from the finding, the lew assessed that the exposed part of the wire touching the metal part of the lamp post could be the cause of the electric shock," said the town council.
"the lew has also checked other lamp posts within the same circuitry and found no similar situation.
the incident could be an isolated case as there was also no previous similar incident of such nature.
"the btptc added that works to rectify the issue were completed yesterday and it will "continue to ensure the safety of (the) electrical installations (it manages)".
"i have lived in this flat for 13 years.
my children have been playing at the playground since they were babies.
but now, even with new lamp posts installed, i am not sure if it is safe to let my kids play outside any more," said mr muhammad.
"all i can think of is if my son will recover fully.
i am worried because this is not just a fall or a fracture.
i don't know how he will be affected by this in the long run.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
long queues formed at the temporary covid-19 testing area set up at block 125a bukit merah view yesterday, after the site was opened to residents.
set up on monday, the site was intended for the mandatory testing of about 85 stallholders at 116 bukit merah view after a new cluster formed at the nearby 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
as it turned out, many residents went there on monday to be tested but were turned away.
yesterday, the site was opened up for the residents after tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira made an appeal to the ministry of health (moh).
it is open to residents until tomorrow.
when the straits times visited block 125a's multi-purpose function hall at 10am yesterday, two queues had formed.
one was for people who had made an appointment.
the second queue, for people who had not, spilled over to the nearby blocks.
about 120 people, mostly the elderly, were in this queue.
the estimated wait time was one to two hours.
some in the second queue were told they could come back within the next two days as appointments for yesterday had been fully booked.
madam shanthi nadesan, 58, started queueing up at 10am.
she had waited for at least an hour when she spoke to st.  she said she had made an appointment at raffles medical to get tested but decided to forgo it.
"i spoke to the mp, ms joan pereira, and she said i don't have to go so far, i can just come here.
but i did not expect to have to wait so long," said the former school librarian, who has yet to be vaccinated.
bukit merah resident simon lee, 65, had been in the queue since 9.
40am and was given a swab test about an hour later.
mr lee, who was in the queue with his mother-in-law, wife and daughter, said he was not bothered by the waiting time.
"it shows that everyone is disciplined.
when called upon, we would do our part to be tested," said the taxi driver.
undergraduate germaine tan, 21, who made an appointment for a swab test at 10.
30am, joined the queue for those with bookings about five minutes before her scheduled timing.
she still had to wait in line, with about 20 others ahead of her.
"it is quite organised, because there is someone ushering (those in) the queue, so it is not so bad," said the third-year student from the singapore institute of management.
according to a health promotion board staff member on-site, roughly 200 people were tested as at 11.
30am.
ms pereira said she, as well as moh, had anticipated that many elderly residents may not know how to register online and would just go to the temporary site directly to be swabbed.
"therefore, moh has deployed safe distance ambassadors on the ground to maintain safe distancing.
.
.
i have also called upon residents to help the elderly in their family to book appointments online, in order to reduce the crowds at the opening hour," she told st. residents and members of the public who had visited either 115 bukit merah view market and food centre or shops at 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 were urged to go for a free covid-19 swab test.
staff and tenants who had been working at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre from may 25 have been quarantined and would be swabbed during quarantine.
staff and tenants who had been working in the nearby 116 bukit merah view from may 25 also had to go for mandatory swabbing to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
tom power
16 june 2021
major spoilers follow for loki episode 2 on disney plusspoilers follow for loki episodes 1 and 2. loki on disney plus isn't hanging around with its big character reveals.
episode 2 of marvel's latest tv show has only just been released but, unlike wandavision or falcon and the winter soldier, we aren't being made to wait for surprise character introductions.
we already knew that loki (tom hiddleston) would run into another loki 'time variant'.
agent mobius (owen wilson) stated as much in episode 1's final scene – but we didn't expect the identity of this other loki 'time variant' to be revealed so soon.
we imagine you have questions about this character, so we're here to help.
below, we'll dive into their comic book history and which actor portrays them in the series.
we also look at what their introduction may mean for the show moving forward and why this character may not actually be who we think it is.
we're entering major spoiler territory for loki episode 2 from this point on.
if you haven't watched it all the way through yet, turn back now.
after tracking down the 'variant' to a world-ending event in 2050, loki, mobius and a tva squad split up to cover more ground and locate them.
loki pairs up with hunter b-15 (wunmi mosaku) and the duo soon encounter a single male, who is inexplicably shopping for plants as a massive storm rages outside.
when hunter b-15 moves closer to interrogate him further, however, the male grabs b-15's arm and seemingly transfers his consciousness into her.
yep, the person hiding inside the man (who transfers themselves into hunter b-15) is none other than the loki 'variant'.
the two versions of loki verbally lock horns (all the while the loki 'variant' continues to transfer themselves into other human vessels, to keep things interesting) before their plan is revealed.
after stealing enough of the tva's time reset charges – the devices that destroy offshoot branches from the sacred timeline – the loki 'variant' plans to activate them all at once.
creating a massive surge in nexus events, multiple timelines will branch off from the sacred timeline, cause reality to break down and presumably lead to a new multiversal war, as alluded to in episode 1. before setting their scheme in motion, though, the loki 'variant' finally reveals who they are – lady loki.
yes, you read that right: a female version of loki.
lady loki's reset charges activate, they travel to different dimensions in time and cause multiple branches to branch off from the sacred timeline.
lady loki leaves through her own time travel doorway and, despite mobius' last-ditch attempts to stop him, loki follows his namesake through the portal, presumably to get to the bottom of who they really are.
sophia di martino.
the british actress, who has appeared in tv shows including silent witness, was rumored to be playing lady loki in marvel's latest series, and now we have confirmation that she is.
as loki's tv show was being filmed, leaked on-set images appeared to show di martino in a very loki-like costume.
at the time, we speculated that this was who di martino would be in the series, and we're glad to see we were right.
lady loki is a fairly new addition to marvel comics.
created for a 2008 thor comic issue run by j.  michael stracynski, lady loki is, well, loki reborn in female form.
lady loki emerged following marvel comics' version of ragnarok, and went on to be the primary version of loki through several other comic storylines including dark reign, new avengers and original sin.
as it turns out, lady loki hadn't replaced the male loki that comic readers had known since his first appearance in october 1962's journey into mystery #85 comic.
lady loki is loki and, instead of being one of his many tricks, lady loki is one of many of the character's personae.
this, in turn, led to the revelation that loki is genderfluid.
lady loki, then, retains the personality, mischievous ways, abilities and other traits that loki has – the only difference is that this iteration of the character is female instead of male.
it's a part of the character that has been adopted in the mcu, too.
as episode 1's end titles sequence (and the official loki twitter account) revealed, the tva has a file on loki that confirms the character is genderfluid.
given episode 2's events, we can safely assume that loki will follow lady loki across multiple realities (as we've seen in the trailers) to discover the reason behind their universe-ending plan.
our guess is that the tva betrayed lady loki and she's exacting revenge by destroying the so-called sacred timeline.
after all, there's something shady about the tva.
maybe they offered lady loki a similar deal to the one that mobius gave loki (an audience with the time keepers) and then reneged on that agreement once they had used lady loki for whatever they needed.
if that is the case – and this is purely speculation on our part – we could see a tug of war, between lady loki and the tva, play out for loki's loyalty.
loki will be aware that, if he crosses the tva, he'll lose the opportunity to potentially speak with the time keepers.
there's also the fact that the tva will delete him from existence so, theoretically, it's in his best interests to remain loyal to them.
however, loki is a schemer – so lady loki, by definition, should be, too.
the latter could conceivably persuade hiddleston's loki to join her cause instead, enlist his help in causing multiversal mayhem and they could rule the marvel cinematic multiverse (mcm) together in some way.
loki's trailer appeared to show the pair having a (potentially pleasant) chat on an unknown planet.
of course, we don't know when this conversation will take place in loki's tv show but, for all intents and purposes, it seems to be pretty civil.
if it is, this could be when loki joins forces with lady loki to take on the tva.
alternatively, it may be that di martino's character isn't, in fact, lady loki at all.
according to episode 2's end credits, di martino is playing a character called sylvie – and this individual is completely different from lady loki in marvel comics.
how do we know di martino's character is called sylvie?
take a look at the castellana dubbed voice actors' roster right at the end of episode 2.  you'll see someone else (elisa beuter) voicing di martino's character, who is referred to as sylvie:hang on, how do we know beuter is the voice actor dub for di martino?
take a look at the german language dub image below, and you'll see sonja spuhl voices a character called 'the variant'.
this has to be the same character as sylvie, as both characters are second only to loki in their cast order importance:if di martino's character is called sylvie, there's only one marvel comic character that this can be referencing: sylvie lushton, aka enchantress.
in the comics, sylvie is an average teenage girl living in oklahoma until the asgardians move their asgard home to the same state.
not long after, sylvie wakes up with magical powers and adopts the pseudonym enchantress – a character who is as much of an anti-hero/villain as loki.
as it turns out, sylvie obtains her powers from loki, including sorcery, teleportation and telekinesis.
judging by the first two episodes of loki, we've seen di martino's character use similar abilities to possess people and, well make her hands glow green.
it's highly plausible, then, that this is enchantress and not lady loki as we first suspected.
as far as we're aware, enchantress doesn't wear a crown with two horns (a la loki) in the comics, but di martino is sporting such a head accessory in loki episode 2.  this certainly muddies the waters as to who di martino is actually playing.
whatever happens, or whoever di martino is portraying, it'll be interesting to see how the rest of loki's tv series plays out.
there are bound to be more twists along the way and we can't wait to see what occurs.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
guangzhou, china — bytedance, the owner of tiktok, saw its revenue for 2020 more than double, a person familiar with the matter told cnbc.
revenue for last year totaled $34.
3 billion, up 111% year-on-year, senior management at the company told employees in a company-wide meeting.
gross profit rose 93% to $19 billion, the person who attended the meeting said.
bytedance had 1.
9 billion monthly active users by the end of 2020 across all of its platforms — which include its widely popular short video app tiktok, the chinese version douyin, and news aggregation app toutiao, among others.
the wall street journal first reported the numbers.
the rapid growth underscores the excitement around bytedance, a private company, and why its valuation has reportedly been pegged north of $100 billion.
the company also hired former xiaomi executive shou zi chew to be its new chief financial officer earlier this year, signaling it could be gearing up for an initial public offering.
bytedance's 2020 operating loss was $2.
1 billion versus a $684 million operating profit the year before, said the person, who wished to remain anonymous as they were not authorized to speak publicly.
the loss was mainly due to the cost of share-based compensation for shareholders, the source said.
the chinese internet company has managed to find success internationally with tiktok, the short video app popular for dancing and lip syncing.
advertising is a key part of bytedance's revenue on its platforms, but it has started pushing into new areas such as gaming and is pitting itself against some of china's other tech giants like tencent.
it's been a rocky year for the company, however.
bytedance was dubbed a national security threat by former president donald trump's administration last august and ordered to divest its tiktok business in the u. s.  the wall street journal reported this year that a deal to sell tiktok has been shelved indefinitely.
in china, bytedance has been caught up on a broader regulatory crackdown on the country's technology sector.
douyin, the chinese version of tiktok, along with 104 other apps, were called out by china's cyberspace administration of china for the illegal collection of personal data and asked to rectify the issues.
the company will also undergo a key management change this year.
zhang yiming, the co-founder of bytedance, will step down from his role as ceo by the end of the year and move into a key strategy role.
another co-founder, liang rubo, who is currently head of human resources, will take over as ceo.
got a confidential news tip?
we want to hear from you.
sign up for free newsletters and get more cnbc delivered to your inboxget this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
© 2021 cnbc llc.
all rights reserved.
a division of nbcuniversaldata is a real-time snapshot *data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
global business and financial news, stock quotes, and market data and analysis.
data also provided by
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singapore's labour market continued its recovery in the first quarter, with total employment growing for the first time since the start of the covid-19 pandemic.
a report by the ministry of manpower (mom) on thursday (june 17) showed that the total employment, excluding foreign domestic workers, rose by 12,200 in the first three months of the year, after four consecutive quarters of decline.
this far surpassed the preliminary estimate of 4,800 released in april.
resident hires continued to rise, outpacing the decline in non-resident employment, which is partly due to restrictions on the inflow of foreign workers.
this increase was driven by the broad hiring of residents in the service sectors, such as information and communications, food and beverage, health and social services, and administrative and support services.
more retrenched residents here have also found jobs within six months, while job vacancies have risen to nearly match the unemployed population, according to the report.
but the labour market is still not fully back to its pre-pandemic state, said mom.
moreover, uncertainties in the economy and the recent tightened measures during phase two (heightened alert) are expected to weigh on the pace of labour market recovery in the second quarter.
manpower minister tan see leng said singapore's path to recovery "will not be a straight road", and will entail some twists and potential roadblocks.
"recovery is also expected to be more uneven across sectors than earlier expected," said dr tan, speaking to the media after visiting the procter & gamble singapore innovation centre at biopolis on wednesday (june 16).
unemployment rates continued to ease, after peaking in september last year at 3.
5 per cent for the overall workforce, 4.
9 per cent for citizens and 4.
8 per cent for residents.
in march, this dropped to 2.
9 per cent overall, 4.
2 per cent for citizens and 4 per cent for residents.
the rates are still higher than pre-pandemic unemployment levels.
retrenchments, however, fell for the second consecutive quarter to pre-pandemic levels, said mom.
the re-entry rate of retrenched residents into employment also rose for two consecutive quarters, to 66.
2 per cent.
as business activities picked up, the number of workers placed on shorter work weeks or temporary layoffs also declined, from 8,710 in the fourth quarter of last year to 4,020 in the first quarter of this year.
meanwhile, the number of job vacancies rose to 68,400 in march, exceeding the last high of 65,500 in march 2015. the ratio of job vacancies to unemployed persons also improved, to 0.
96 or nearly one job vacancy for every unemployed person in march.
this is an increase from a ratio of 0.
75 in december last year.
associate professor lawrence loh from the national university of singapore business school said the first quarter performance is expected, as it follows on the heels of the recovering covid-19 situation in the latter part of last year.
"however, it is too early to say that there is a turnaround in the employment trend," he stressed, adding that singapore is not out of the woods just yet.
"employment normally lags economic growth – given the restricted situation in the second quarter now, the decline in economic activity is likely to affect the job market in the next quarter and beyond.
"foreign employment growth is likely to continue its decline, given ongoing border restrictions.
this could lead to labour shortages in sectors like construction.
to help construction companies cope with the manpower crunch, the government has introduced a temporary scheme that would make it easier to recruit workers from china, where the coronavirus situation is more stable and fewer restrictions are in force.
chinese work permit holders usually obtain their skills certification from overseas training centres in china, but they will now be allowed to get certified in singapore instead.
maybank kim eng senior economist chua hak bin said the labour market recovery is k-shaped, with a stark divergence between resident and non-resident employment.
"the divergent and uneven labour market recovery will likely continue in the second quarter, given even stricter border and quarantine controls under the heightened measures," he added.
"wage pressures may surface earlier than expected as the resident labour market tightens, even though employment is still far below pre-pandemic levels.
the government has also put in place various schemes for employers to access a wider pool of talent, from career conversion programmes to the jobs growth incentive that encourages employers to bring forward the hiring of local workers through wage subsidies.
dr tan said businesses here have to innovate, from digitalisation to developing niche capabilities.
"as businesses transform, the workforce must be reskilled and upskilled to keep pace with the changing needs," he added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
this story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
this story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
a 45-year-old woman is assisting police with investigations after causing a commotion for refusing to wear a mask on a public bus on monday (june 14).
the woman was caught on video making a scene onboard bus service 69 at bedok bus interchange after a bus captain reminded her to put on her mask.
however, instead of complying, she argued with the driver, causing a delay which forced other passengers to alight.
in the video circulating online, she taunts sbs transit staff and tells them to call the police.
in response to a stomp query, ms tammy tan, the operator's corporate communications senior vice president said: "on monday evening, 14 june 2021, at about 10.
30pm, a service 69 bus was at the bedok interchange when a female passenger boarded without donning a mask.
"the bus captain reminded her to do so for the safety of everyone onboard but she refused although she carried one with her.
"this led to a delay with some passengers alighting from the bus.
"the woman commuter subsequently alighted from the bus which then resumed its journey back to the tampines interchange.
"we would like to remind all passengers to wear a mask when travelling on public transport as part of our health and safety measures during this pandemic.
"the police told stomp they received a call for assistance at 12 bedok north drive at 10.
26pm.
"a 45-year-old woman is assisting in investigations for public nuisance and breach of covid-19 regulations," a police spokesman said.
police investigations are ongoing.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
late-night hosts discussed the controversial congresswoman's holocaust apology as well as the lifting of covid-19 restrictionslast modified on wed 16 jun 2021 12.
35 edton jimmy kimmel live!, the host discussed the extremist republican congresswoman marjorie taylor greene's apology after comparing covid-19 restrictions to the holocaust.
in a press conference, she admitted remorse after having visited the holocaust museum, saying her eyes were now open to the horrors of it.
"it's amazing what a little education can do," he said.
"she now knows as much about the holocaust as every sixth-grader in washington dc.
quick, build a climate change museum too!
"he also referred to her as "the sorriest excuse for a congresswoman we've ever had".
to celebrate donald trump's 75th birthday, a party was put on which his son donald trump jr posted video of on instagram.
"what a party, all the best people are there although i couldn't help but notice: his wife wasn't," he commented.
kimmel suggested that melania trump might have run off with hunter biden instead.
on the late show, stephen colbert talked about "an important threshold" as new york passed a 70% vaccination rate.
remaining restrictions are now being lifted which "means that pizza rat can finally dine inside again".
back in march, joe biden called vladimir putin "a killer" which he recently discussed on a us tv interview, trying to confusingly explain that it was a hypocritical thing to say.
"my favourite sayings are the ones that are convoluted and need a lot of explanation," he said.
jason riddle, who was charged for his involvement in the capitol riot, is now running for office in new hampshire but in a recent interview, revealed that he didn't even understand the system or that he was up against a democrat.
"this explains his campaign slogan: jason riddle for .
.
.
i dunno, your guess is as good as mine!"
joked colbert.
another rioter, who memorably put his feet up on nancy pelosi's desk, made an appearance on russian tv recently, which led colbert to joke that he also did the rounds on the country's other morning shows: oppress the nation, murder the press and fox new sunday.
on late night, seth meyers discussed the planned new york city parade to honour the pandemic frontline workers, announced by the mayor, bill de blasio, this week.
"dude, have you learned nothing?"
meyers asked.
"new yorkers hate parades.
that's like saying you're going to honour them with a trip to fenway and some deep-dish pizza.
"publishing houses have reportedly been reticent to publish a post-presidency book by donald trump because they worry it won't be truthful.
meyers quipped that fears were based just on the title: how i slept with carmen electra.
in a new interview, barack obama said that if you watch fox news, you have a different version of reality than if you read the new york times.
"if you only watch fox, you might not know that some women have brown hair," meyers said.
marjorie taylor greene just learned something shocking about the holocaust: it happened.
pic.
twitter.
com/zztvlnzg6zon the daily show, trevor noah also talked about greene, georgia congresswoman and "your crazy aunt's even crazier friend".
greene has become "notorious for saying absolutely anything with zero shame" talking unhinged conspiracies and also comparing covid-19 restrictions to the holocaust, something she is now admitting was a mistake.
"this woman writes the laws, the laws that governs the land and she's out here like, 'yo did you guys hear about the holocaust – shit's wild,'" he said.
"i mean, for real though, are we going to get a press conference every time marjorie taylor greene learns about something?
because she doesn't know about a lot of things.
"he said that he felt bad for her because learning "forces you to take back all the ignorant shit you said in the past".
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore data categorised by ethnicity remains relevant to singapore, and is done with the "best of intentions", to ensure no group is inadvertently left behind, and to know where to intervene with help.
explaining why population data is broken down by ethnicity, minister in the prime minister's office indranee rajah said at a media briefing on the release of singapore's population census on wednesday (june 16): "to the extent that any group may not be doing as well as any others in any areas, then it tells us that as a society and in terms of policy, we should do something to try and make sure that we can bridge any gap.
"the census is conducted every decade by the department of statistics.
its latest findings showed that the ethnic composition of the resident population has remained stable with 74.
3 per cent chinese, 13.
5 per cent malays and 9 per cent indians.
the resident population comprises citizens and permanent residents.
citizen proportions also remained constant at 75.
9 per cent chinese, 15 per cent malays and 7.
5 per cent indians.
singapore's total population rose from 5.
077 million in 2010 to 5.
686 million in 2020. ms indranee, who oversees the national population and talent division, was asked by reporters whether it was useful to continue presenting data according to ethnicity rather than socio-economic indicators like income particularly when the figures might reveal stark disparities.
in the area of education, for example, the proportion of university graduates in 2020 was 34.
7 per cent for the chinese, 10.
8 per cent for malays and 41.
3 per cent for indians.
ms indranee said such questions assume "all will be well" in the absence of such breakdowns.
"if you didn't have this data, then let's say that a particular ethnic group was not doing well compared to the others, you would have no idea how many (people); you would have no idea in what areas; you wouldn't know whether the problem was education or whether the problem was something else," she explained.
"all you would have is just one big block of data.
.
.
and you would not, for example, be able to reach or address those groups in a way that is meaningful to them.
"ms indranee acknowledged the importance of not presenting such race-based data in a manner that leads to divisiveness or finger-pointing.
the government has put out race-based statistics with the right balance enough for people to know where different groups are going or heading, but not in such a way as to be inimical to any group, she said.
ms indranee added she had noticed that social media conversations often pinpoint the few instances where the government relies on race-based data, but without the full picture.
in school, for instance, if students are not faring well, basic remedial classes are offered to students of all races.
"it's (only) a small subset where they may come from family backgrounds where the parents only speak in the vernacular, where there are certain issues that may be tied to ethnicity or culture," ms indranee noted.
"and the only way you're able to address them is on their own terms, which is through their own cultural and ethnic lens, and that was the basic thinking behind setting up the self-help groups.
"there are four race-based self-help groups: the chinese development assistance council, the singapore indian development association (sinda), yayasan mendaki and the eurasian association.
ms indranee, who is sinda president, stressed that these groups were not the "be-all and end-all".
she also said that events of the past few weeks have shown that being multiracial, multi-religious and multilingual was still very important to singapore.
one of these was a video from last weekend showing a chinese man making racist remarks at a mixed-race couple.
another was a clip of a chinese woman interrupting her neighbour's hindu prayers.
such incidents have sparked police investigations and animated discussion among both the public and government leaders.
ms indranee said racism has existed since the dawn of time and as a matter of concern for singapore since its independence.
"it is an ugly thing.
we shouldn't have it.
you have to fight against it.
it comes up from time to time because people have frustrations, they may have personal angst," she said.
"when we see it, we should deal with it firmly.
"but ms indranee also said this did not mean that singapore would reach a "post-race" stage, nor that the country would disregard markers like religion or language.
"what it means is that you must work very hard to make sure that the different races, religions, languages with all their wonderful differences which we celebrate can actually live together peacefully and harmoniously," she said.
"and that's constantly a work in progress.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur: a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
cindy ong's story is the latest to cast a harsh spotlight on physical and sexual abuse in sport, and follows a litany of complaints from fellow swimmers, gymnasts and ice-skaters.
but her move to go public is a particularly rare and difficult one in a country where social conservatism often discourages people from speaking out.
now 37, she told afp how the abuse began with the coach inappropriately touching her in her early teens.
he also harassed her several years later after she returned from studying overseas.
"a lot of grooming went on over the years," said ong, who remains a successful swimmer, winning five gold and two silver medals at the 2019 fina world masters championship in south korea.
"he made me think that he was interested in me.
he said things like 'i will wait for you'.
"ong said she felt powerless to stop the coach with the national team, who is about 15 years older than her.
reporting him to sports authorities or the police did not cross her mind.
the swimmer, who grew up in the city of ipoh in northern malaysia, said that speaking out would have been considered "extremely taboo".
"it was just a different era, and it was not possible to speak up.
i didn't tell my parents, i didn't tell my friends.
"but ong said it was an "open secret" that he was suspected of abuse, and is believed to have sexually assaulted other swimmers.
for now, the mother of three has decided not to pursue a case against the coach or publicly name him, believing too much time has passed.
he is no longer with the national team, she said.
but ong wants to help others by bringing attention to what she believes is rampant abuse in sports in the south-east asian nation.
"i'm honestly trying very hard to advocate, and to push, and to use myself as a platform and a voice for a lot of other people", she said.
"i hope to be a catalyst for change.
""liberated"ong was inspired by teenager ain husniza saiful nizam, who recently sparked a nationwide debate in malaysia about school harassment after criticising her teacher on tiktok for making a joke about rape.
"i just wanted to echo that and say look guys, this is happening in sports too," said ong, who was a member of malaysia's national swimming team for several years before going to study in the united states aged 17. she wants authorities to launch a campaign to tackle abuse in sports, and hopes to encourage the tabling of a long-delayed sexual harassment bill in parliament, seen as key to boosting protection for women.
while many supported her decision to speak out, the reception has not been universally warm.
she faced a barrage of obscene comments online and someone even sent her a lewd video an incident which she reported to police.
malaysia has seen abuse allegations in swimming before a former national diving coach stood trial for raping a diver and was cleared but the country is far from alone.
swimming australia recently pledged to set up an independent female panel to investigate complaints about "misogynistic perverts" bydual olympic silver medallist maddie groves.
ong's case is yet to lead to any reforms, but the government is paying attention.
the deputy sports minister, wan ahmad fayhsal wan ahmad kamal, tweeted that her claims were a "serious allegation, will get to the bottom of it".
"country's image at stake, no (compromise) on misconduct".
malaysia's national sports council, which promotes the development of sports, did not respond to afp's requests for comment.
after staying quiet so long, the swimmer says she now feels "liberated".
"after i spoke out,"she said.
"i felt more empowered to help other people.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
chinese president xi jinping is renewing his years-long push to achieve technology self-sufficiency by tapping a top deputy to shepherd a key initiative aimed at helping domestic chipmakers overcome u. s.  sanctions.
liu he, xi's economic czar whose sprawling portfolio spans trade to finance and technology, has been tapped to spearhead the development of so-called third-generation chip development and capabilities and is leading the formulation of a series of financial and policy supports for the technology, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
it's a nascent field that relies on newer materials and gear beyond traditional silicon and is currently an arena where no company or nation yet dominates, offering beijing one of its best chances to sidestep the hurdles slapped on its chipmaking industry by the u. s.  and its allies.
the sanctions, which emerged during donald trump's presidency, have already smothered huawei technologies co. 's smartphone business and will impede longer-term efforts by chipmakers from huawei's hisilicon to semiconductor manufacturing international corp.  to migrate toward more advanced wafer fabrication technologies, threatening china's technological ambitions.
"china is the world's largest user of chips, so supply chain security is of high priority," said gu wenjun, chief analyst at research firm icwise.
"it's not possible for any country to control the entire supply chain, but a country's effort is definitely stronger than a single company.
"the involvement of one of xi's most-trusted lieutenants in china's chip efforts highlights the importance accorded by beijing to the initiative, which is gaining urgency as rivals from the u. s.  to japan and south korea scramble to shore up their own industries.
the chinese president has long called upon his harvard-educated adviser to tackle matters of top national priority, making him the chief representative in trade negotiations with the u. s.  as well as chairman of the financial stability and development committee, where liu leads the charge to curb risks in the nation's $5-trillion-plus financial sector.
in may, liu spearheaded a meeting of the technology task force that discussed ways to grow next-generation semiconductor technologies, according to a government statement.
the 69-year-old vice premier, who has led the country's technology reform task force since 2018, is also overseeing projects that could lead to breakthroughs in traditional chipmaking, including the development of china's own chip design software and extreme ultraviolet lithography machines, one of the people said, asking not to be identified as they weren't authorized to speak to media.
the state council and the ministry of industry and information technology didn't respond to faxed requests for comment.
during trade negotiations with the trump administration, liu emerged as one of the most visible advocates of beijing's agenda.
he's known xi since childhood -- both are sons of veteran communist party leaders and were among masses of young people dispatched to work in impoverished rural areas during the cultural revolution.
now, liu is leading the charge to reform the tech sector, which was identified in china's latest five-year economic plan as a key strategic area in which the "whole nation system" should be used to mobilize any necessary resources.
first introduced under mao zedong to help the then-fledgling communist china industrialize, the approach was crucial to helping beijing attain a number of top national priorities, from developing its first atomic bomb in the early 1960s to achieving olympic sporting success.
after that it was largely set aside as officials shifted to focus on economic growth.
but following a series of u. s.  sanctions that exposed the vulnerabilities of china's chip capabilities, xi is once again reactivating the mechanism to achieve breakthroughs in advanced chip development and manufacturing.
about a trillion dollars of government funding have been set aside under the technology initiative, part of which will be used by central and local governments to jointly invest in a series of third-generation chip projects, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
top chipmakers and research institutes have submitted proposals to the ministries of science and information technology, all vying for a place in the national program and a share of the financing.
the ministry of science and technology is slated to inject 400 million yuan ($62 million) into some key "strategic electronics materials" including third-generation chips, according to a government document.
even moonshot chip programs are in line for government funding.
the state-backed national natural science foundation of china has pledged financial support for dozens of exploratory research programs, ranging from ultra-low power consumption to the development of a flexible chip that can collect and transmit nerve signals, as beijing seeks to overcome "computing bottlenecks" when moore's law -- the industry standard for predicting the pace of chip improvements -- finally stops working.
several subsidiaries of china electronics technology group corp.  and china railway construction corp.  -- organizations already sanctioned by the u. s.  -- are among the state-backed firms backing the effort, one of the people said.
another government-linked giant, china electronics corp. , is one of the leaders in third-generation chip development, thanks to its investment in smaller firms including cec semiconductor co.  using its own in-house technology, cec semiconductor makes silicone carbide-based power devices that can work at 200 degrees celsius (360 degrees fahrenheit) for a number of key industries from telecommunications to electric cars -- reducing china's reliance on overseas suppliers such as infineon technologies ag, rohm co.  and cree inc. shares of chipmakers climbed, with smic rallying more than 8% in shanghai, set for its biggest one-day gain since october.
shares of national silicon industry group co. , will semiconductor co.  and maxscend microelectronics co.  also advanced.
sanan optoelectronics co.  and wingtech technology co.  -- among firms seen as potential beneficiaries of china's third-generation chip effort -- gained 10% and 8%, respectively.
the task of coordinating that sprawling program now falls to liu, who has to keep track of the relevant resources and drive the national strategy to help china achieve chip independence.
"for our country, technology and innovation is not just a matter of growth," liu told a three-story auditorium packed with china's top scientists in a separate meeting in may.
"it's also a matter of survival.
"read more: biden needs more than $52 billion to counter china in chipsxi is counting on his lieutenant to help china fend off growing threats from the u. s. , which is seeking to take back chip industry supremacy.
under the trump administration, sanctions were slapped on chinese giants from huawei to smic, cutting off their access to american technology and equipment crucial to designing and making advanced logic chips.
president joe biden has also laid out a $52 billion plan to bolster domestic chip manufacturing, while calling on allies to join export controls aimed at curbing beijing's drive toward technology self-sufficiency.
rival powerhouse nations like south korea and leading corporations such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing co.  have also responded with their own spending plans, fueling the race to take the lead in the sector.
read more: china revs up grand chip ambitions to counter u. s.  blacklistingswith traditional chipmaking facing a series of challenges from technology development to heavy capital investment, third-generation chips -- which use compounds such as gallium nitride and silicon carbide to significantly improve the performance of semiconductors that power a wide range of industries and products -- may offer china its best chance to overcome rivals, senior academic mao junfa told an industry event in nanjing earlier this month.
"china couldn't buy chips, even with cash in hand," he said, referring to washington's sanctions on chinese tech companies including huawei.
"the compound chip technologies could help china surpass rivals in the post-moore's law era.
"— with assistance by shiyin chen, yuan gao, and abhishek vishnoi
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a serial flasher who was released from prison last october reoffended about four months later, in february this year.
he exposed himself at a sheltered walkway of city hall square shopping mall in coleman street.
the following month, budiman shah mohd noorel azman spotted a nine-year-old girl at a bus stop along newton road and flashed his private parts at her.
the 36-year-old singaporean was on wednesday (june 16) sentenced to 11 months and 20 days' jail after he pleaded guilty to one count of sexually exposing himself.
three other similar charges were considered during sentencing, including for the february offence.
deputy public prosecutor goh qi shuen said that the recalcitrant offender was earlier sentenced to 19 months' jail in 2019 after he pleaded guilty to three counts of insulting a woman's modesty.
at the time, his victims included three minors, including an eight-year-old girl.
he served his sentence and was released last year.
budiman's latest offences saw him first target a woman on the morning of march 29 this year.
he spotted his victim at a bus stop across the road as he was walking towards newton mrt station at around 7.
30am.
he then walked towards her and pulled down his tights to expose his genitals.
the dpp said: "he deliberately stood in a position where he thought she would look towards when flagging down a bus.
"however, as he did not observe any reaction from her, he did not derive the sexual gratification he was seeking and felt dissatisfied.
"after that, he crossed the road again and walked towards newton mrt station.
he then spotted the nine-year-old girl and her mother walking towards another bus stop.
feeling sexually aroused, he pulled down his tights again and exposed himself near an advertisement board at this second bus stop.
dpp goh said: "the accused saw that the (girl) had turned and looked in his direction.
however, the accused did not observe any reaction from her and felt dissatisfied.
"he then walked towards the notice boards of the second bus stop, before returning to his original spot, with his genitals still exposed all this while.
"budiman was walking away after pulling up his tights when the girl told her mother about what she had seen.
the 31-year-old woman ran after him while recording a video and he fled the scene.
she alerted the police soon after.
for exposing himself to a child below 14 years old, budiman could have been jailed for up to two years and fined or caned.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                petaling jaya: the government is considering mixing two different vaccines to boost efficacy against different covid-19 variants, says khairy jamaluddin.
the coordinating minister for the national covid-19 immunisation programme said they are currently looking at real world data received from germany on heterologous vaccinations using astrazeneca for the first dose and pfizer-biontech as the second dose.
heterologous vaccinations, khairy said, was a method of using two different vaccines to boost efficacy against different variants.
he added that data from this has so far shown to have boosted neutralising antibodies and were more effective against different variants.
"we are watching this very closely.
we do not want to make a quick decision on this before getting more data.
the data points are coming in for heterologous vaccinations and once the technical working group is clear on that, it will advise the committee that i chair with the health minister.
we will then implement the heterologous vaccinations," he said during a webinar titled "the path to herd immunity" organised by the oxford & cambridge society malaysia on wednesday (june 16).
khairy noted that there is a possibility that they will "end up doing this" as a lot of countries have been doing it to boost the neutralising antibodies, and the efficacy.
"also, when you are facing vaccine supply constraints, you can mix it up to ensure that the effectiveness of the vaccine is still there," he said.
during the webinar, khairy also said they were thinking of shortening the astrazeneca dosing interval.
however, he said currently they have a problem with the astrazeneca vaccine supply.
"part of the astrazeneca supply from covax was delayed and some of the supplies from thailand were also slightly delayed.
so, we are recalculating our delivery schedules right now to see whether we can shorten the interval period for astrazeneca," he said.
the astrazeneca dosing interval is currently at 12 weeks.
separately, khairy also said that they were working closely with the education ministry and are considering inoculating those who would be in their examination-year this year.
he said this will include teachers, support staff as well as exam-year students as the pfizer-biontech has been approved for those aged 12 to 15.  
tags / keywords:
khairy jamaludin
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                vaccination
                                                                ,
                                                                                                national covid-19 immunisation programme
                                                                ,
                                                                                                efficacy
                                                                ,
                                                                                                pfizer-biontech
                                                                ,
                                                                                                astrazeneca



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
singapore: the warm and humid weather in the first two weeks of june is expected to continue into the month's latter half, the meteorological service singapore (mss) said on wednesday (jun 16).
in the second fortnight of june, daily temperatures are expected to range between 25 degrees celsius and 34 degrees celsius on most days, sometimes reaching 35 degrees celsius on days with little or no rain.
"warm and humid conditions can also be expected on some nights when prevailing winds from the southeast or south blow warm and humid air from the sea," said the met service.
on these nights, night-time minimum temperatures of up to 28 degrees celsius can be expected, particularly over the south-eastern parts of the island.
the monsoon rain band is forecast to lie further north of the equator and low-level winds are expected to blow from the southeast or southwest.
on a few days in the early part of the fortnight, a mass of dry air from the indian ocean is forecast to move over the equatorial southeast asia region.
this will bring fair and warm weather over singapore and the surrounding region, said mss.
on some days, there will be localised short-duration thundery showers over parts of the island in the late morning and early afternoon due to strong day-time heating of land areas.
"on one or two days, widespread thundery showers with gusty winds due to sumatra squalls are forecast between the pre-dawn hours and morning," said the met service.
overall, the rainfall for june is expected to be below normal over some parts of singapore.
review of weather in first half of junein its review for the weather in the first half of june, the met service said that the light and variable winds over singapore and the surrounding region strengthened to blow from the southeast or southwest.
the shift signalled the end of the inter-monsoon period and the start of the southwest monsoon season.
thundery showers fell mostly over the western half of the island and in the late morning and afternoon.
they were due to strong solar heating of land areas coupled with localised convergence of winds.
"there were also a few days when thundery showers fell during the night and in the pre-dawn hours," the met service said.
on jun 15, moderate to heavy thundery showers fell mainly over the western and northern parts of the island in the afternoon.
the daily total rainfall of 93.
8mm recorded at mandai that day was the highest daily rainfall for the first half of the month.
the first fortnight was "generally warm", with nine days where the daily maximum temperature was above 34 degrees celsius.
the highest daily maximum temperature of 35.
5 degrees celsius was recorded at marina barrage on jun 4. on a few warm nights, particularly over the southern parts of singapore, the minimum night-time temperatures ranged between 28 degrees celsius and 29.
2 degrees celsius.
rainfall was below average for most parts of singapore except in the north-western parts of the island where it was above average, said the met service.
the highest rainfall anomaly of 138 per cent above average was recorded at choa chu kang.
the anomaly was lowest at sentosa at 61 per cent below average.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
bangkok (afp) thailand plans to fully reopen to foreign visitors in four months, premier prayut chan-o-cha vowed on wednesday (june 16), citing the urgent need to save the kingdom's ailing tourism industry.
the coronavirus pandemic has hammered thailand's tourism sector amid border closures and strict hotel quarantine measures.
the impact has reverberated across different sectors downing hotels, restaurants, bars and local transport operators and the country's present battle against a third wave has left local businesses clambering for more government aid.
tourism previously made up almost 20 per cent of thailand's national income.
"i am therefore setting a goal for us to be able to declare thailand fully open within 120 days from today, and for tourism centres that are ready to do so even faster," premier prayut said in a televised address on wednesday evening.
he said the only exception would be "if a truly serious situation develops".
"i know this decision comes with some risk.
.
.
but i think when we take into consideration the economic needs of people, the time has now come for us to take that calculated risk," he said.
to do this, thailand's top priority is to get at least one shot for everyone in the country ahead of the re-opening, he said.
prayut expects 50 million thais to be inoculated by october with a target of at least 10 million per month.
"we cannot wait for a time when everyone is fully vaccinated with two shots to open the country or for when the world is free of the virus," he said.
thailand has recorded close to 205,000 infections and 1,525 deaths.
prayut's administration has been under pressure over its economic management as thailand experiences its worst performance since the asian economic crisis of 1997. the government has also been under fire over its slow vaccine rollout, which to date has seen about seven per cent of the population inoculated with a first dose before the program was paused this week due to a lack of supply.
a so-called "phuket sandbox" has also been floated allowing vaccinated tourists to enter the country without quarantine but the mixed messaging from authorities on the program has left some potential visitors gun-shy on purchasing flights.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
follow bloomberg on  telegram for all the investment news and analysis you need.
they've raised salaries and promised quicker promotions.
but the world's biggest securities firms and banks are still struggling to retain junior investment bankers in asia, challenging their expansion plans for a region that's growing faster than almost anywhere else.
recruiters and executives say the exodus is in some ways more difficult to stem than in new york and london, where analysts and associates have rebelled against the industry's work-till-you-drop culture.
in asia's biggest hubs, young employees are more likely to leave because they think they can earn more -- and climb the corporate ladder faster -- at one of the many fintech and investment firms that have sprouted up to tap the region's buoyant economies and swelling piles of wealth.
the challenge is particularly acute in china and hong kong as foreign firms ramp up hiring to take advantage of a financial opening in asia's largest economy, competing with each other as well as the local startup scene.
"the whole industry is running into a pretty big supply and demand issue, and i don't think this is going to be alleviated any time soon," mark leung, jpmorgan chase & co. 's chief executive officer for china, said in a bloomberg television interview.
the u. s.  lender is among banks including goldman sachs group inc. , credit suisse group ag and hsbc holdings plc.
hiring hundreds of staff for their push into china.
while it's hard to quantify turnover with any certainty, an informal bloomberg news poll of executives at four global securities firms found that anywhere between 13% to 15% of investment banking analysts and associates left their roles this year, roughly double the average in previous years.
that's in line with estimates for the u. s.  and higher than the u. k. , according to executives at recruiting firms.
exits have picked up despite annual pay raises of 25% to 30% since 2019 for hong kong-based bankers covering in-demand sectors like technology and health care, said executives who oversee groups or the region, asking not to be named discussing private information.
the increments have been more subdued for southeast asia where attrition is also rising, one of them said.
jonathan lamphotographer: lam yik/bloombergjonathan lam left hsbc holdings plc's investment bank in hong kong in the middle of last year to join butler, a home concierge company he helped start that offers personalized services ranging from housekeeping to fixing washing machines and hosting dinner parties.
it was the feeling of making an impact and "owning something" that drove lam to quit his debt capital markets job right after a promotion, he said.
the prospect of a financial windfall also helped.
"with banking you can make good money in the short term, but with startups, if you grind it through, it will lead to big fortunes," said lam, 30, who founded butler with alumni of goldman sachs group inc.  and wells fargo & co.  the startup completed a funding round last year and has 30 employees.
asia's economic rise has made it one of the world's most attractive regions for entrepreneurs.
its share of global startup investments rose to about 40% in 2015-2017, up from 10% a decade earlier, according to mckinsey.
it's home to more than a third of the world's unicorns, the nickname for startups valued at $1 billion or more.
the attrition is made more acute by the fact that finance is still a growth industry in asia and is smaller relative to the overall economy than in the u. s.  and europe.
more than half of finance firms in mainland china surveyed by recruitment firm michael page expect to increase their headcount by about 11% this year, on average.
financial services will likely be the most-active recruiter in hong kong and the second most-active in singapore, the poll showed.
an employee of the concierge service butler works at a client's home in hong kong earlier in june.
photographer: lam yik/bloombergsome smaller hedge funds and money managers in hong kong are offering double the salary to lure talent, two quantitative trading analysts at a wall street bank said based on approaches from headhunters.
private equity firms, where employees get a share of profits, have also been active recruiters of junior talent in the past year, including bain capital, pag and hillhouse capital, one of the people said.
in singapore, opportunities are sprouting at hedge funds and private equity firms as well as a new breed of fintech and digital banking firms, according to lim chai leng, a senior director at recruiting firm randstad singapore.
a former banking associate at hsbc in hong kong, who asked not to be named, jumped to a fund manager last year, accepting a 20% cut in base salary.
he'd seen his total remuneration rise 70% over four years with the bank, he said, but wanted to get on the path to managing his own capital.
startups and smaller boutique firms can offer flexible working and other benefits that established players have struggled to keep up with, said james carss, managing director at executive search firm nrg in the u. k.  the churn rate in the u. k.  is three to four months behind asia, but is likely to catch up, he said.
big technology firms are also drawing from the banks.
morgan stanley vice president shiyi lin last month left to join the strategic investment group at alibaba group holding ltd. , according her linkedin page.
in singapore, jack ma's ant group co. , southeast asia's most-valuable startup grab holdings inc.  and its most valuable company sea ltd.  are setting up digital banks.
daniel yuan, a yale-educated former analyst at goldman sachs, left in 2019 to become chief of staff at online finance company futu holdings ltd.  while he credits goldman for teaching him everything he knows about finance, he found his ability to move up the ladder too rigid.
"i knew exactly what i needed to do and how long i needed to keep doing this in order to advance my career at goldman," yuan said.
"at a leaner and more entrepreneurial corporate like futu, there's a lot of flexibility around what i can do, especially in my capacity as the chief of staff.
"banks are starting to notice.
one example is lam's old firm, hsbc, which counts hong kong as its largest market.
the lender, which is in a midst of a major pivot to asia, last month promised a shorter career path for new associates, offering promotions after three years instead of four.
it also pledged to boost pay.
jpmorgan is also hiring more junior bankers and staff globally.
lenders are raising pay for junior employees, enforcing curfews and adding staff to prevent defections and ease discontent as a jump in deals during the pandemic intensified the focus on work-life issues.
wall street was set abuzz earlier this year by a leaked presentation from junior analysts at goldman sachs that detailed their grueling workload and punishing hours.
spokespeople for goldman, hsbc and jpmorgan declined to comment for this story.
"in asia, junior bankers are more likely to leave for career opportunities that they see as more financially attractive," said john mullally, regional director at robert walters in hong kong.
"the long hours and stress of banking careers are a factor, but just not as much as it is for their counterparts in europe and the u. s. "read one junior banker's experience of navigating his first yearfor some beleaguered bankers, the exodus of their colleagues at the same time as dealmaking is thriving, is taking its toll.
over the past 12 months, mergers and acquisitions have jumped 30% in asia pacific, while initial public offerings have risen 44%, according to data compiled by bloomberg.
an associate at jpmorgan, who asked not to be named, said his workload doubled after a colleague quit for a financial technology firm in december, leaving him to work 18 hours a day, on average, without a break for almost two months.
he's now actively hunting for a job at a buy-side firm, he said, looking for a place with less hierarchy and more opportunities for career advancement.
— with assistance by david ramli, stephen engle, and michael patterson
a village in the centre of myanmar has been burned down after clashes between the security forces and local guerrillas, leaving at least two people dead.
residents told the bbc that 200 of the 240 houses in kin ma were razed to the ground by the military on tuesday.
they said the incident began after forces clashed with a local militia opposed to the governing regime.
dan chugg, uk ambassador to myanmar, has condemned the attack.
"reports that the junta has burned down an entire village in magway, killing elderly residents, demonstrate once again that the military continues to commit terrible crimes and has no regard for the people of myanmar," a facebook post read.
state television however blamed the fire on "terrorists".
according to reuters news agency, mrtv reported that any media that suggested another cause was "deliberately plotting to discredit the military".
one resident told the bbc that security forces clashed with a people's defence force (pdf) on tuesday.
such groups were formed in the wake of the recent military coup, and have started to fight against the police and military with homemade weapons.
"when the pdf members drew back, they [the security forces] came into the village and started to set alight the houses in the southern part," the resident said.
"almost the whole village was burned down to ashes. ''
another resident said the villagers fled into the woods outside kin ma after troops opened fire.
two elderly people however could not run and died in the fire, locals said, while a few more were reported missing.
"the fire was everywhere in the village and we saw big flames," the resident said.
"we had to flee for our lives from gunfire and we had to watch it from a distance.
"according to reuters, the fire was so large it was recorded by nasa's satellite fire-tracking system at 15:22 gmt on tuesday.
myanmar's military seized power in february, alleging voter fraud in general elections held the previous year a vote independent election monitors say was largely free and fair.
demonstrations spread across the country after the coup.
security forces responded with a brutal crackdown, killing more than 800 people and detaining close to 5,000. could phone footage put myanmar's leaders in jail?street tales from myanmar: 'take care of our baby if i die'first crew blasts off to new china space stationthree astronauts successfully take off for china's longest ever human spaceflight mission.
biden and putin praise talks but discord remainsdecoding biden and putin's body language.
videodecoding biden and putin's body languagewhy cyber gangs won't worry about us-russia talks'i walked three days to find a hospital for my son'covid threat to india's holiest river.
videocovid threat to india's holiest riverthe vast european mine infuriating the neighboursdecoding biden and putin's body language.
videodecoding biden and putin's body languagewhat's going on in iran's election?âmindset shiftingâ as more australians ditch boozebbc worklife: the myth of a new digital-nomad movementcruising industry still in choppy watersfootball phrases15 sayings from around the worldkim jong-un admits north korea food concerns1first crew blasts off to new china space station2eriksen to have heart-starting device3major australian banks hit by website outage4botswana diamond could be world's third largest5âmindset shiftingâ as more australians ditch booze6world bank rejects el salvador bitcoin request7the 32-year-old taking on big tech8the vast european mine infuriating the neighbours9biden and putin praise talks but discord remains10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the death of a man who made headlines more than 20 years ago for being singapore's youngest bone marrow donor as a 15-month-old infant has been ruled as a misadventure.
mr seamus shi liang died on dec 2, 2020, after a part of a machine he was fixing while working fell on his head.
coroner sharmila sripathy said in her findings on wednesday (june 16) that there was no evidence of foul play.
she said the 26-year-old did not place wooden blocks between two components of the machine before removing another of its parts.
this could have prevented the accident from happening.
mr shi was featured in the new paper (tnp) in 1995, when his bone marrow was donated to his elder sister, ms sinead shi rui, who had leukaemia.
doctors had ruled out their parents as donors.
tnp said that the father, mr stephen see, had hepatitis and the mother's bone marrow was only a 50 per cent match to her daughter.
mr shi was working as a service engineer for arburg, which manufactures plastic injection moulding machines, when he died.
on the day of the tragedy, he went with a colleague to another manufacturing firm, meiban micro, to repair a vertical plastic moulding machine.
as part of the repair works, he had to remove a component of the machine, which was secured by multiple bolts.
he placed his head between two other parts of the machine as he unscrewed the bolts.
one of the parts dropped onto him seconds after he removed the bolts, pinning his head.
mr shi's colleague and meiban micro workers tried to rescue him but failed.
paramedics pronounced him dead at the scene after singapore civil defence force officers extricated the body.
injuries to the head and neck were cited as the cause of death.
citing ministry of manpower investigations, coroner sripathy noted that both mr shi and his colleague were not trained to repair plastic moulding machines with the same configuration as the one at meiban micro.
but she said that he and a different co-worker had repaired another machine of the same model in march 2020. on that occasion, wooden blocks were placed between parts of the machine.
this safety measure was not stated in arburg's risk assessment at that time, the coroner added.
she extended her condolences to mr shi's family.
mr stephen see was present in court on wednesday, but declined to speak to the media.
a family friend, who did not want to be named, was also present.
when asked if the family would be pursuing any further civil action, the friend said they were keeping their options open.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said they "have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law".
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a woman said she made a disturbing discovery on the car she'd been driving after receiving an unexpected alert.
tiktok user @murasakisweetpotatoes took to the app to share her experience and seek advice from the audience.
"happy birthday to me .
.
.
big emergency," she said.
"i'm relying on tiktok, as always, to tell me what the f*** is going on.
i was notified like 30 minutes ago that an airtag was following me.
"an airtag is a device similar to the tile that tracks easily misplaced objects like a purse or a set of keys.
the gadget uses bluetooth to ping its location to nearby apple products.
"i found a tracking device behind the license plate of my brother's car that i've been driving," @murasakisweetpotatoes said, trying to smile through what appeared to be a horrifying situation.
"while as a gemini i feel flattered, as a citizen, i feel concerned .
.
.
we called local law enforcement .
.
.
.
and police took the serial number, so we'll see what happens.
"in a follow-up post, the tiktoker alleged that she received a notification from the "find my" app on her phone that a device nearby.
her brother confirmed that he had no idea where it came from and didn't even know what an airtag was.
according to apple's official website, that featured is "designed to discourage unwanted tracking. "
if someone else's airtag becomes attached to your or your items in any way, it will send you an alert.
if you still haven't found it after some time, it will start playing a sound, so you know it's there.
these alerts are only triggered when an airtag is separated from its owner, so you would not receive an alert if you were traveling with one, say, on a train with other apple device users.
user @murasakisweetpotatoes clarified that if there was a notification, she didn't hear one.
this was most likely because the airtag was attached to the outside of the car.
she claimed apple required her to give law enforcement the serial number of the stray device and required a court order before giving law enforcement any information regarding the device's owner.
"this could have been completely random or someone stalking my little brother," @murasakisweetpotatoes said.
she claimed that police told her they were too busy when she followed up with them about the incident and said she should call back in a week.
she did not have any more answers about who could have placed the device behind the car's license plate.
the incident left commenters spooked.
"new fear unlocked," one user said.
"this is so scary," another wrote.
"when i heard about this device, it really creeped me out.
i don't really see any other purpose other than stalking," a third remarked.
these delicious keto recipes will get you through the summer:in the know is now available on apple news — follow us here!
if you found this story interesting, read more about a woman who found a tile in her purse after eating at a restaurant.
more from in the know:woman claims neighbor called police over her "dressing inappropriately"barack obama's first presidential memoir is out now — and it's cheaper to read with kindlethese inexpensive silky-soft pillowcases on amazon are good for your hair and your skinthe 3 most affordable meal delivery kits for cooking at homethe post woman allegedly made disturbing discovery under license plate after receiving an unusual message appeared first on in the know.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing neitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oa former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
hong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
kuala lumpur: the rulers of malaysia said there is no need to extend a state of emergency beyond aug 1, while calling for the political temperature to be cooled down.
keeper of the rulers' seal syed danial syed ahmad said in a statement on wednesday (jun 16) that the rulers have noted the high number of daily covid-19 cases, although a state of emergency has been proclaimed.
the economic and financial situation of the country was worrying and the political atmosphere is unstable, according to the statement.
"the unity among the people is increasingly cracked," the statement read, adding that people were suffering from job loss and income loss.
the malay rulers reached an agreement that, among others, people's lives and livelihoods must be prioritised, it said.
"the political temperature that is increasingly rising must be cooled down.
"it is important to have a stable government that can command confidence and support of the majority of the people.
"there is no need to place the country under a state of emergency after aug 1, 2021," the statement read.
on wednesday afternoon, king al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah chaired a special rulers' conference at istana negara, after granting audiences to key political leaders since last week.
in a statement issued after the meeting, the king saidparliamentary sittings should reconvene as soon as possibleso that the emergency ordinances and the national recovery plan can be debated by members of parliament.
the kingfirst declared a state of emergency on jan 12to curb the spread of covid-19.
the emergency was scheduled to last until aug 1 or earlier depending on the state of coronavirus infections.
federal parliamentary sessions and state legislative assemblies have not sat since then, and no elections were held during this period.
the suspension of parliament was seen as a move that helped prime minister muhyiddin yassin avoid an immediate challenge to his razor-thin majority.
mr muhyiddin was appointed to the post following a power tussle in putrajaya last year.
he has since faced leadership challenges not just from the opposition, but also from allies in his perikatan nasional government.
opposition politicians have been criticising the government's handling of the pandemic and called for parliament to sit.
a spike in covid-19 cases has forced the government to implement a total lockdown since jun 1. according to the wednesday statement, the malay rulers were of the opinion that legislature assemblies in their respective states should also convene as soon as possible.
"the assembly methods and procedures currently practised in a few countries, which were proven to be able to curb the spread of the covid-19 virus, should be introduced and accepted in this country," the statement said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    wednesday, 16 jun 2021
                kuala lumpur: the king has called for the parliament to be reconvened as soon as possible.
istana negara comptroller of the royal household datuk ahmad fadil shamsuddin said that yang di-pertuan agong al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin mustafa billah shah conveyed this after looking at all the views presented by the political leaders, the special independent committee on emergency and experts as well as government agencies.
"this is to allow the emergency ordinance and the national recovery plan to be debated by members of the dewan rakyat," read the statement on wednesday (june 16).
the statement follows a special meeting of malay rulers held at istana negara earlier on wednesday to discuss efforts to combat covid-19.
he said his majesty realised the importance of a functioning parliament during the pandemic in order for lawmakers to debate the emergency and the national recovery plan.
"members of the dewan rakyat can also discuss the government's spending to help the rakyat who are facing hardship and to recover the national economy," he said.
he said his majesty also called on the government to act decisively to simplify bureaucracy and speed up the covid-19 vaccination process in order for the country to achieve herd immunity as early as possible.
the king also expressed the need for a strong and stable government administration so it can function effectively in handling the spread of covid-19 and to heal the country's economy, added ahmad fadil.
"his majesty also is of the view that vaccination is the only exit strategy to curb the spread of the covid-19 in the country," said ahmad fadil.
"the king also expressed his highest gratitude for the continuous support of the malay rulers who reflected the concern of the country and for the livelihood of the people," read the statement.
yang di-pertuan agong also expressed his gratitude to frontliners and the rakyat for sacrificing and their efforts to fight the spread of covid-19, added ahmad fadil.
the king also urged the people to continue and pray that the rakyat and the country are protected by allah and will be able to end the pandemic.
related stories:no need to extend emergency beyond aug 1, say malay rulersspecial meeting of malay rulers: johor sultan, armed forces chief leave the palacespecial meeting of malay rulers: all have arrived except kelantan ruler

tags / keywords:
malay rulers
                                                                ,
                                                                                                king
                                                                ,
                                                                                                parliament
                                                                ,
                                                                                                istana negara
                                                                ,
                                                                                                emergency
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
sydney (afp, bloomberg) major banks and airlines in australia and the united states suffered brief online outages thursday (june 17), with several blaming an "external provider" for the disruption.
most of australia's major financial firms reported customers could not access websites and mobile apps, while website downdetector said a slew of us airlines were also affected.
american, delta, united and southwest airlines were among them, although all four websites appeared to be working shortly after.
hong kong exchanges & clearing and australia's central bank also went down briefly thursday in the second global 
internet outage in as many weeks.
some of the outages, including those that affected commonwealth bank of australia, westpac banking corp and australia & new zealand banking group were linked to a failure at akamai technologies, which helps clients manage web services, people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be identified discussing internal affairs.
the reserve bank of australia was forced to cancel a scheduled bond-buying operation thursday, blaming "technical difficulties".
a representative for akamai in asia didn't respond to emails and calls seeking comment, bloomberg reported.
the widespread downtime recalled an hour-long global outage earlier this month, triggered by a software failure at content delivery platform fastly that affected services from amazon.
com to shopify and stripe.
in thursday's incident, issues appeared to be more prolonged in australia where problems hit in the mid-afternoon as much of the rest of the world slept with services only slowly returning an hour after the first reports.
a spokesman for anz bank told agence france-presse that the incident was "related to an external provider" but that "connectivity was restored quickly and the most impacted services are back online".
commonwealth bank told afp that it and many of the country's major banks had been affected.
westpac and me bank also reported problems with their mobile apps or online banking products, while customers for st george and several regional banks reported they were down too.
the outages began around 2.
10pm sydney time (12.
10pm singapore time) and did not appear to be limited to the banking sector.
airline virgin australia posted to twitter: "we are currently experiencing a system outage which is impacting our website and guest contact centre.
"australia post, the country's postal service, said some services were hit by an "external outage".
a series of high profile hack-for-ransom attacks have also left corporations around the world jittery over cybersecurity risks, although there was no indication the latest problems were caused by malicious actors.
colonial pipeline was briefly shuttered after an attack in may, and jbs, the world's largest meat producer, was forced to stop operations in the united states and australia.
both firms reportedly paid ransom to get operations back up and running.
the issue of cybersecurity was at the top of the agenda when us president joe biden and his russian counterpart vladimir putin met in geneva this week.
washington believes hackers who have extorted hundreds of millions of dollars from western governments, companies, and organisations operate from russian soil.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — while singapore continues to be religiously diverse, more residents are identifying as having no religion, said the department of statistics (dos) in a report released on wednesday (16 june).
among singapore citizens and permanent residents aged 15 and above in 2020, those with no religious affiliation made up 20 per cent, an increase from 17 per cent in 2010, said the dos in the first statistical publication on its census 2020 findings.
within the ethnic groups, 25.
7 per cent of chinese identified as having no religion, while 0.
4 per cent of malays and 2.
2 per cent of indians said the same in 2020.  meanwhile, 14.
6 per cent of those from other ethnic groups said they had no religion.
among the resident population aged 15 and above in 2020, buddhists were the largest group at 31.
1 per cent, followed by christians at 18.
9 per cent and muslims at 15.
6 per cent.
taoists comprised 8.
8 per cent, while hindus made up 5 per cent, with those prescribing to other religions accounting for 0.
6 per cent.
the proportion of muslims and christians also grew between 2010 and 2020 while the proportion of buddhist and taoists dipped.
among the chinese, 40.
4 per cent identified as buddhists, while 21.
6 per cent were christian, 11.
6 per cent taoist and 0.
5 per cent muslim.
among the malays, 98.
8 per cent identified as muslim, while 0.
1 per cent said they were buddhists and 0.
4 per cent had no religion.
for indians, 57.
3 per cent identified as hindu, while 23.
4 per cent were muslim, 12.
6 per cent were christian and 0.
7 per cent were buddhist.
another 3.
9 per cent of indians identified with some other religion and 2.
2 per cent said they had no religion.
the dos report is aimed at providing broad trends and changes relating to the demographic characteristics, marriage and fertility, education, literacy, home language and religion of singapore's resident population – referring to citizens and permanent residents – between 2010 and 2020.  the census data was collated from 150,000 households.
more findings from census 2020 will be shared on friday.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:man who fled to thailand to avoid drug charges cheated mask buyers in singaporeall 14 new covid cases in singapore in communitylandlord who kept exposing himself to female tenant jailed and fineddickson yeo, s'porean who spied for china, to remain behind bars'not possible to have fair hearing': woman without mask at mbswhen 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
chinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaiitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
a former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing netwo experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oif you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
a former malaysian national team swimmer says she hopes to become a "catalyst for change" after her taboo-breaking decision to open up about alleged sexual assault by a coach.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
tokyo (bloomberg) the japanese government recommended ending a state of emergency for tokyo, osaka and other areas on june 20 as planned, because infections have fallen about a month before the country is due to host the summer olympics.
economy minister yasutoshi nishimura, who is also in charge of covid policy, said thursday (june 17) the government is seeking to allow the measure to end, about two months after it was first imposed in the capital.
the formal decision will be made by prime minister yoshihide suga, who will have a news conference later thursday to discuss the issue.
the olympics, delayed by a year due to the coronavirus, appear well on track for a july 23 start, even though surveys show large numbers of the japanese public want to call off or delay the global sports spectacle out of fears it could become a superspreader event.
olympic organisers are set to make a decision later this month on whether to allow spectators.
the government is backing a 10,000-person limit on public events, which could be applied to the olympics, and mr suga has said he would like to see fans in the stands for the games.
virus management is crucial for mr suga, who faces a party leadership election in september and must hold a general election by the end of october.
while none of the opposition parties has enough backing to topple his ruling liberal democratic party (ldp), any major stumbles with public health related to the olympics could prompt the ldp to replace mr suga as premier.
infection numbers have fallen in tokyo from 1,027 on april 29 to a seven-day average of 385 new cases a day as of june 16, but the pace of the decline has slowed recently.
japan's vaccination rollout, which has accelerated in recent weeks, still ranks among the slowest for a developed country, with the bulk of the population likely not having received a dose by the start of the olympics opening ceremony.
focused virus measures will be in place through july 11 for many of the areas where the emergency is lifted, including the capital and osaka, mr nishimura said.
under the current emergency, bars and restaurants are banned from serving alcohol, and must close by 8pm, and individuals are urged to avoid unnecessary travel.
mr nishimura said eateries will be allowed to serve alcohol until 7pm if certain conditions are met.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a hidden-camera search squad, consisting of student and citizen volunteers, scan a restroom near a public pool in changwon, south korea on 25 jul 2018 (source: getty images)south korean authorities are failing to properly tackle the country's widespread digital sex crimes against women, which have a devastating impact on victims, a human rights watch (hrw) report said wednesday.
south korea is the world's 12th largest economy and a leading technological power, but remains a male-dominated society with a poor record on women's rights.
digital sex crimes, or the sharing of intimate pictures or video without permission, are a massive problem in the country, where "molka" or spycam videos secretly filmed in public places are common, as is "revenge porn" — private sex videos filmed or shared non-consensually by disgruntled exes.
south korean officials "in the criminal legal system –- most of whom are men –- often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes," said hrw's heather barr, the report author.
in 2019, almost 45 percent of sexual digital crime cases were dropped by the country's prosecution, compared with 19 percent of robbery cases and 27.
7 percent of homicides, the report said.
even when there were convictions, it found almost 80 percent of perpetrators received just "a suspended sentence, a fine, or a combination of the two" last year.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared.
.
.
they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," barr said.
spycams have become so prevalent that female police officers now regularly inspect public toilets, with women telling hrw they avoided using the amenities altogether.
one woman who spoke to barr was given a clock by a male employer, which she put in her bedroom — only later finding out the device had been streaming footage to him for over a month.
victims often feel deep shame and are socially ostracised, and an "alarming number" told hrw they had contemplated suicide.
the report comes as an anti-feminist backlash grows in south korea, with companies accused of endorsing "radical feminism" being boycotted by some men.
barr said "widely accepted harmful views" about women and girls were the root cause of the phenomenon.
the government has "not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal," she said.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: telok blangah drive food centre will close for three days from wednesday (jun 16) after a hawker there tested positive for covid-19, member of parliament rachel ong said on tuesday.
the hawker, a 42-year-old singaporean, was listed as case 64218 in the ministry of health's (moh) daily update on monday.
he is a family member of a covid-19 case from thebukit merah view market clusterand was placed on quarantine on jun 13. he had developed body aches on jun 12 and a fever the day after when he sought treatment at singapore general hospital.
the food centre will be closed from wednesday to friday "for deep cleaning and disinfection by the west coast town council", said ms ong in a facebook post.
she added that the national environment agency and the telok blangah shopkeepers & stallholders association have also been assisting stallholders with their concerns and enquiries.
"the town council has also put up notices at the food centre and neighbouring blocks to inform our residents," said ms ong.
"the safety of our residents and stallholders are our topmost priority and we will continue to work to ensure that the necessary precautions are in place.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
london: premier league champions manchester city will start the defence of their title away to tottenham after the fixtures for the 2021-22 season were unveiled on wednesday (jun 16).
city are among the sides heavily linked with spurs striker harry kane, throwing up the tantalising possibility that the england captain could line up against his boyhood club on the opening weekend.
pep guardiola's side won the league by 12 points last season ahead of rivals manchester united, who open their campaign against old foes leeds at old trafford.
both clashes were played behind closed doors on leeds' return to the top flight last season, but hopes are high for significant crowd numbers for the coming season.
a 40,000 crowd will witness the euro 2020 semi-finals and final at wembley in july as part of a uk government pilot scheme.
elsewhere on the weekend of august 14, new boys brentford begin life back in the top flight for the first time in 75 years with a london derby at home to arsenal, while championship winners norwich entertain liverpool on their return to the premier league.
champions league winners chelsea welcome managerless crystal palace to stamford bridgethere are a number of early meetings between the 'big six'.
liverpool host chelsea on the third weekend of the season before the blues host manchester city in a repeat of the champions league final on september 25. liverpool renew their rivalry with city on october 2 at anfield and their clash at the etihad on april 9 could be key in the title race.
united and liverpool face off at old trafford on october 23 and march 19 at anfield.
all fixtures are still subject to change for tv coverage.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
jiuquan: the first astronauts arrived at china's new space station on thursday (jun 17) in the country's longest crewed mission to date, a landmark step in establishing beijing as a major space power.
the trio blasted off on a long march-2f rocket from the jiuquan launch centre in northwest china's gobi desert, and their craft docked at the tiangong station around seven hours later, where they will spend the next three months.
state broadcaster cctv showed a live feed from inside the spacecraft during the journey, with the three astronauts lifting their helmet visors after it reached orbit as one smiled and waved at the camera.
another floated a pen just off his lap in zero-gravity as he browsed the flight manual.
around seven hours after lift-off, space officials confirmed that the craft had docked with tianhe, the core module of the country's new space station.
the shenzhou-12 craft has "successfully docked with the forward port of the core module" of the tiangong station, said the china manned space agency, as state tv showed live footage.
at a ceremony before blast-off, the three astronauts, already wearing their space suits, greeted a crowd of supporters and space workers, who sang the patriotic song without the chinese communist party, there would be no new china.
the mission's commander is nie haisheng, a decorated air force pilot in the people's liberation army who has already participated in two space missions.
the two other members are also members of the military.
space lifethe tianhe module of the space station has separate living spaces for each of the astronauts, a "space treadmill" and bike for exercise, and a communication centre for emails and video calls with ground control.
it is china's first crewed mission in nearly five years.
huang weifen of the china manned space program said the astronauts will perform two spacewalks during the mission, both lasting around six or seven hours.
she also said the trio will wear newly-developed spacewalk suits.
the launch represents a matter of huge prestige in china, as beijing prepares to mark the 100th anniversary of the ruling communist party on jul 1 with a massive propaganda campaign.
to prepare for the mission, the crew underwent more than 6,000 hours of training, including hundreds of underwater somersaults in full space gear.
the chinese space agency is planning a total of 11 launches through to the end of next year, including three more manned missions that will deliver two lab modules to expand the 70-tonne station, along with supplies and crew members.
china's space ambitions have been fuelled in part by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station, a collaboration between the united states, russia, canada, europe and japan.
it is due for retirement after 2024, even though nasa has said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong will be much smaller than the iss, and is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
china has said it would be open to international collaboration on its space station although it has yet to give specific details.
zhou jianping, chief designer for the space programme, said "foreign astronauts are certainly going to enter the chinese space station one day".
"there are a number of countries that have expressed a desire to do that and we will be open to that in future," he said.
beijing said in march it was also planning to build a separate lunar space station with russia, and this week the two countries issued a "roadmap" for potential collaboration opportunities.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — while the use of a malay-muslim couple's wedding photo as a standee in hari raya decorations by the people's association (pa) last month was "culturally insensitive", it was certainly not "racist", said the pa in a facebook post on monday (14 june).
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said the pa in a detailed post, adding that it saw "no point" in proceeding with an arranged meeting with sarah bagharib and her husband razif abdullah.
in an instagram post on 28 may, sarah had highlighted the use of the photo to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas member of parliament melvin yong and his hari raya wishes for residents.
noting that neither she nor her husband had given consent for the photo to be used by the pa, sarah added, "the inappropriate appropriation and use of our cultural symbol only succeeded in showing people('s) association's superficial understanding of malay/singaporean muslim culture".
the post has garnered almost 18,000 likes.
in its post on monday, the pa noted that it had removed the standee and apologised to the couple, as well as posting a public apology on its social media platforms.
its post on 29 may revealed that warabi enterprise (art studio) had been engaged by radin mas constituency office (co) to design and put up hari raya decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
however, in the process, the vendor downloaded sarah's photo from an online source and then used it for a cut-out standee.
and while the pa spoke to the vendor on the seriousness of the incident, it stressed, "the pa, including radin mas co, take responsibility for this error as we have oversight of the matter.
"in addition, the pa offered on monday to meet with the couple to apologise in person.
"we also wished to clarify our position, elaborate on the steps we have taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how we might improve at the meeting.
"however, it claimed that sarah had said this incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and characterised the incident as "racist".
in an instagram live interview with walid j.  abdullah last tuesday, said the pa, she also insinuated that pa staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
"these are accusations we reject," said the pa. furthermore, in sarah's public social media posts about her upcoming meeting with the pa, she had made a public call for anyone to "please share your messages/suggestions to pa here and we'll share them".
"we find this odd," said the pa.  "we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident.
"the pa added, "all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"it also claimed that sarah's email to the pa on 1 june alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"this is untrue.
the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," said the pa.  "it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself.
"we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"pa also said it is looking at setting up a resource panel to guide its staff on cultural matters, and stepping up training to enhance its staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of different cultures.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:of 25 new covid cases in singapore, 19 local including 1 dorm residentman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
techradar is supported by its audience.
when you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission.
learn more
by
richard edwards
16 june 2021
huge spoilers ahead- episode 2 (of 6), 'the variant'
- written by elissa karasik
- directed by kate herron
★★★★★spoilers for the first two episodes of loki follow.
watch them first before reading this.
superheroes may be the dominant force in popular culture right now, but their current screen success is a mere flash in the pan next to the longevity of the detective drama.
by merging the two genres in spectacular, wise-cracking fashion, however, loki episode 2 may have found one of the most potent forces in the universe.
where last week's debut episode, 'glorious purpose', spent much of its runtime establishing the monochrome world of the time variance authority and how it fits into the marvel cinematic universe, 'the variant' plays out like a fully-fledged police procedural.
the idea of law-enforcement authorities hiring a criminal mastermind as an unlikely consultant has been used everywhere from hannibal to lucifer, and while it's a plot device that can occasionally slip into cliché, it's an irresistible proposition when it works.
particularly when the two bickering leads work together as well as they do in the loki tv show.
loki and mobius may come from different worlds, with totally opposing views on life, the universe and pretty much everything, but the mcu is a better place when they're together.
did you hear the one about the god of mischief and the tva agent?
the answer is frequently hilarious and played to perfection, with tom hiddleston's shakespearean delivery finding its perfect foil in owen wilson's laidback texan drawl.
crucially, you're never quite sure which of the duo has the upper hand.
anyone who can send a flamboyant god of mischief out into the world in a drab, standard-issue tva jacket with "variant" emblazoned across the back in big orange letters – "very subtle.
.
.
well done," says loki – clearly wields a degree of control thor's brother has never encountered before.
indeed, mobius already knows exactly how to get under the asgardian's skin with his taunts about the fugitive loki variant being the superior model.
and yet, every time you think mobius has clipped loki's wings, the god of mischief will push back with a clever delaying tactic, a spot of casual backstabbing (it's a speciality), or outright deceit – a drinking game inviting you to down a shot every time loki tells a lie would be downright danger to your health.
while mobius often gives the impression he sees past loki's scheming, there are plenty of times his prisoner/partner gets the better of him.
the question is, who needs the other more?
mobius's tease of a possible face-to-face meeting with the time-keepers (aka the "three magic lizards") has clearly piqued loki's interest – they're his best route back to his timeline, after all – but is the reward big enough to persuade loki to bury his face in a tva case file?
is loki's less by-the-numbers approach to the mystery, an unconventional way of thinking that leads him to realize that the rogue variant is using apocalyptic events to hide from the time variance authority, the more valuable commodity?
even mobius has to admit that loki is "very clever".
there's also the growing sense that there's a grudging respect developing between the pair, and maybe even some common ground.
mobius's faith in the "glorious purpose" of the tva has remarkable parallels with loki's belief that residents of asgard are deities – though, as far as we're aware, loki is yet to express any interest in jet skis.
the biggest reason this episode works so well, however, is that you could put loki and mobius in the most mundane of environments and they'd still be engaging company.
that this particular case takes them to assorted destinations in space and time – from ancient rome to 2050 alabama – only serves to make show more infectious.
especially when the loki/mobius bickerfest isn't really the main event.
the entire episode is built around the hunt for the mysterious rogue loki, and the slow-build to a very big reveal is a masterclass in direction.
'the variant' makes no secret of the fact the hooded figure we saw at the end of 'glorious purpose' is the other loki, but has loads of fun with the tease.
from possessing hunter c-20 to take down an army of minutemen (soundtracked by bonnie tyler's 'holding out for a hero') to watching cctv screens in a giant future supermarket, loki 2.
0 is a constant, malevolent presence.
and even when they step into the spotlight, they maintain a taste for the theatrical by taking over the bodies of hunter b-15 and other unfortunate souls, before spurning loki prime's offers of an alliance and revealing an unexpected female face.
"this isn't about you," she tells male loki, as she unleashes an audacious plot to "bomb the sacred timeline" – it's a big enough deal to get ravonna renslayer out of her trinket-packed office.
with two lokis now on the loose in the space-time continuum, all bets are off – chaos is, after all, what loki (or lokis) tend to do best.
head back in time with our recap of loki: episode 1. verdict: up there with the very best episodes of wandavision and the falcon and the winter soldier, 'the variant' is loads of fun from start to finish – a triumph of writing, acting and direction.
although the premiere episode suggested that loki may have been reformed when he learned his fate in the sacred timeline, he's back at his hilarious, double-crossing best here – particularly when he's sparring with the similarly brilliant agent mobius.
but the big news is the arrival of a female loki who – on the evidence of her brilliantly implemented evil scheme – may actually be the superior version of the trickster god, as mobius suggests.
after an episode that does a brilliant impression of a cop show, the fact that two lokis are now on the run hints that – entirely appropriately for the character – the show may be about to shapeshift into something entirely different again.
the fugitive across the space-time continuum?
sign us up.
.
.
new episodes of loki debut on disney plus every wednesday.
sign up to get breaking news, reviews, opinion, analysis and more, plus the hottest tech deals!thank you for signing up to techradar.
you will receive a verification email shortly.
there was a problem.
please refresh the page and try again.
techradar is part of future plc, an international media group and leading digital publisher.
visit our corporate site.
©
future publishing australia abn: 96 734 906 323 | po box 1077, mount st,
north sydney
nsw 2059.
hong kong: hong kong police arrested five executives at the apple daily early thursday (jun 17) morning, including its editor-in-chief ryan law.
it was the second time in less than a year that the newspaper's office has been raided.
more than 500 police officers were involved in thursday's operation, which authorities said was sparked by articles apple daily had published "appealing for sanctions" against hong kong's and china's leaders.
police officers were seen sitting at computers in the newsroom after entering with a warrant to seize journalistic materials, including from reporters' phones and laptops.
the warrant, which police said was aimed at gathering evidence for a case involving the national security law that beijing imposed last year, raises further concerns about media freedom in the city.
officials said the five executives were arrested for collusion with a foreign country or external elements "to endanger national security".
"they have overall responsibility for the content, style and principles of news reporting," senior superintendent steve li told reporters.
authorities also confirmed hk$18 million (us$2.
3m) in apple daily assets had also been frozen under the security law, the first time a seizure order has been made directly against a hong kong media company, rather than an individual.
police officers gather outside the headquarters of apple daily in hong kong, jun 17, 2021.
(apple daily via ap)security secretary john lee described the newsroom as a "crime scene" and said the operation was aimed at those who use reporting as a "tool to endanger" national security.
"we are talking about a conspiracy in which these suspects try to make use of journalistic work to collude with a foreign country or external elements to impose sanctions or take hostile activities against hong kong and .
.
.
china," lee said.
he did not elaborate on which articles the police action was taking aim at.
"it is your choice whether you will regard them as part of you who go about your journalistic work lawfully and properly," he told reporters.
senior superintendent li said the tabloid published dozens of reports dating back to 2019 that "incited foreign countries to impose sanctions", without saying when the most recent articles in question were.
the legislation is not retrospective but prosecutors can use actions from before its implementation as evidence.
'blatant attack'the five people arrested were editor-in-chief ryan law, chief executive officer cheung kim-hung, chief operating officer chow tat-kuen, deputy chief editor chan puiman and chief executive editor cheung chi-wai.
"this is a blatant attack on the editorial side of apple daily.
they are arresting editors.
they're arresting the top editorial folks," mark simon, an adviser to jimmy lai, told reuters.
the tabloid's billionaire owner lai, 73, was charged with collusion after hundreds of officers searched the paper's newsroom last august.
he is currently serving multiple jail sentences for attending various protests.
the paper broadcast live footage of the police raid on thursday on its facebook account.
officers could be seen cordoning off the complex and walking through the building.
"they arrived around 7am this morning, our building is besieged," an unnamed reporter said in a live commentary with the broadcast.
"now we can see them moving boxes of materials onto their truck.
""police are restricting us from using quite a lot of our equipment.
but we can still keep this live camera on and our website will keep updating," the voice added.
chief editor law was seen walking in handcuffs, flanked by police officers.
the apple daily paper's general news desk told reporters in a text message seen by reuters to carry on with their assignments outside the building for the time being.
the move is the latest blow to apple daily after authorities last month directed lai's shares in next digital, publisher of the newspaper, to be frozen.
the union representing apple daily's journalists described the operation as a "wanton violation of press freedom" that "displayed how much police power has inflated under the national security law".
in an interview with afp last month, law struck a defiant tone.
he admitted that the paper was in "crisis" since the jailing of its owner lai but said his reporters were determined to press on with publishing.
at a recent townhall meeting, staff members asked law what they should do if the police came back to arrest him.
he had a simple reply: "broadcast it live.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                petaling jaya: walk-ins to vaccination centres will be introduced once those who have pre-registered for the covid-19 vaccines have been inoculated, says khairy jamaluddin.
the coordinating minister for the national covid-19 immunisation programme said that this might happen by the end of august or in mid-september once those who are pre-registered have been immunised.
"i think once we have cleared them (those who are pre-registered) by the end of august or early september, then we will introduce walk-ins.
"you can just show up and be vaccinated.
you will not need a registration anymore," he said during a webinar titled "the path to herd immunity" organised by the oxford & cambridge society malaysia on wednesday (june 16).
presently, walk-ins are not available as the government has to be fair to those who have registered, said khairy.
"we have to give out those appointments first.
once that is done then we can open it up and anyone can just turn up to get vaccinated," he added.
during the webinar, khairy also explained the reasons why other vaccines such as those by moderna and sinopharm are not available in the country.
he said the registration of pharmaceutical products in malaysia has to have a local product registration holder.
"there has to be a company here that is responsible for the product.
for pfizer-biontech and astrazeneca, they have subsidiaries here while for sinovac, it doesn't, so it appointed pharmaniaga to become its product registration holder," he said.
with the moderna vaccine, khairy said there is no product registration holder, noting that nobody has come forward to express an interest in registering the vaccine.
"we have been talking to pharmaceutical companies but there is no private pharmaceutical company that wants to register it.
"we can facilitate it, we can ask for the data from moderna or sinopharm from all these pharmaceutical companies, and approve it, then it can be sold in the private market," he said.
separately, khairy also said that in the private sector model which will come later, where the private sector will purchase and procure the vaccines, they will have to work out their own liability when administering the covid-19 vaccines.
"under the government programme, the pharmaceutical companies have indemnified themselves so we have created a vaccine injury fund for it.
"for instance, if there is proof of causality that results in constant or long-term hospitalisation then we will make monetary compensation, and if there is death that has a causal link to the vaccine, we will pay out up to rm1mil.
"so private hospitals will have to come up with a similar scheme for vaccine injury," he said.
meanwhile, khairy, when explaining the objectives of the national covid-19 immunisation programme, noted that he will be cautious in using the term "herd immunity" as covid-19 may stay around for quite some time.
"i have stopped using that term but some of the other leaders are still using it.
"i have advised the prime minister to be careful about using that term 'herd immunity' simply because, as the coordinating minister looking at the data and science, i am of the view that this may very well be endemic as we may see covid-19 in a less threatening form but it will stay with us for quite some time," he said.
tags / keywords:
khairy jamaluddin
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                vaccination
                                                                ,
                                                                                                walk-in
                                                                ,
                                                                                                moderna
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sinopharm
                                                                ,
                                                                                                pfizer-biontech
                                                                ,
                                                                                                astrazeneca



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
three astronauts will blast off from the gobi desert in china's first manned flight to its new space station (source: afp / china news service)astronauts blasting off on thursday for china's first manned mission to its new space station will have a choice of 120 different types of food and "space treadmills" for entertainment during their stay, china's space agency said.
the mission will be china's longest crewed space mission to date and the first in nearly five years, as beijing pushes forward with its ambitious programme to establish itself as a space power.
the astronauts will spend three months onboard the station, which has separate living modules for each of them, as well as a shared bathroom, dining area, and a communication centre to send emails and allow two-way video calls with ground control.
the astronauts will be able to work off their range of dinner options — which officials assured reporters were all both nutritious and tasty — on the space treadmills or bicycles.
the long march-2f rocket that will get them there will lift off at 9.
22 a. m.  local time (0122gmt) from the jiuquan launch centre base in northwest china's gobi desert, the china manned space agency (cmsa) said at a press conference on wednesday.
the mission's commander, nie haisheng, was among the first batch of astronauts selected to be trained in 1998, and has already participated in two spaceflight missions.
he is a decorated air force pilot in the people's liberation army, and the others in his team are also members of the chinese military.
their shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the main section of the tiangong space station, named tianhe, which was placed in orbit on april 29. another 11 missions are planned over the next year and a half to complete the construction of tiangong in orbit, including the attachment of solar panels and two laboratory modules.
china's desire for a human outpost of its own in earth orbit was fuelled by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station (iss).
"we are willing to carry out international cooperation with any country that is committed to the peaceful use of outer space," ji qiming of the cmsa told reporters on wednesday.
the iss — a collaboration between the us, russia, canada, europe and japan — is due for retirement after 2024, although nasa has said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong — which will be much smaller than the iss — is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: stallholders at the temporarily shuttered 115 bukit merah view market and food centre are worried about losing income, member of parliament (mp) joan pereira (pap-tanjong pagar) told reporters on monday (jun 14).
stallholders had reached out to the mp with their concerns after the ministry of health (moh) announced a new covid-19 cluster in the area on sunday and ordered mandatory testing operations for those who work and stay at nearby block 116. the market has been closed since sunday and will remain so until tuesday to facilitate deep cleaning and to break potential transmission chains.
moh said it was looking the into six cases identified in the market cluster after epidemiological investigations revealed likely ongoing transmission among those who work there.
five of the cases detected so far are either food stall vendors or sundry shop staff aged from the 60s to the 80s.
all staff and tenants who worked at the market from may 25 have been quarantined and will be tested during quarantine.
ms pereira said that while the stallholders understand the need for these measures to take place, "many of them are concerned especially with the fact that they will not have income over the next few weeks".
"they have asked if there is some financial help that could be afforded to them.
we are just working with the government agencies to provide all this relevant information to be relayed to them," she added.
ms pereira said financial grants include the covid-19 recovery grant temporary, courage fund and moh's quarantine order allowance scheme, which pays s$100 a day to self-employed individuals.
"we are working with nea (national environment agency) to see how we can help these stallholders with their varied needs," she added.
"we are every day engaging with our stallholders, calling them to assure them that we are here for them and will look after their needs as much as possible.
"when asked about the possibility of the market being closed beyond tuesday, ms pereira said moh is still investigating and "it's best" that the ministry shares its findings.
moh also said on sunday that it will conduct special testing operations for staff and tenants who worked at 116 bukit merah view from may 25 to "disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission".
eighty-five people from this group will undergo the mandatory testing that started on monday, ms pereira said at the temporary testing site at block 125a.
beyond that, moh said it will extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who visited shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and jun 12. however, testing for this group will not be done at the temporary site, but at regional screening centres or "swab and send home" clinics, which include bukit merah polyclinic.
a cna reporter observed residents turning up at the temporary site in hopes of getting swabbed at a location closer to home.
many were elderly residents who were concerned about being exposed to the virus as they frequented the nearby market.
ms pereira said three elderly residents had asked her about the possibility of being tested at the temporary site.
"i have put up this request to moh to see if we could have the swab tests for our residents as you can see, mostly elderly here since the tentage and everything is set up here," she said.
"it's really very convenient for them.
and if moh gives the go ahead, i think most of our residents will really appreciate that.
"additional reporting by lee li ying.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore nine more covid-19 cases have been confirmed to be linked to the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster, most of whom are food stall workers there or their household contacts, said the ministry of health (moh) on tuesday (june 15) night.
this brings the total number of cases in the cluster to 25. the food centre will have its closure extended to june 26 for cleaning and to break the chain of transmission, said moh.
it has been closed since june 13 and was meant to be reopened on wednesday.
"with the detection of more cases among the market and food centre staff and their close contacts, which suggests that there is ongoing spread with wider transmission, the closure of 115 bukit merah view market and food centre will be extended to june 26," it said.
overall, there were 14 confirmed cases of covid-19 on tuesday, taking singapore's total to 62,315. all were locally transmitted within the community, with no new imported cases.
four of the community cases are unlinked, and 10 are linked to existing cases.
of the linked cases, five had already been placed under quarantine, while the other five were detected through surveillance.
the four unlinked cases include a 36-year-old housewife who developed a fever on june 8 and lost her sense of taste and smell on june 10. she sought medical treatment on monday, when she visited a general practitioner, where she was administered both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
both test results came back positive for covid-19 infection.
her serology test result is pending.
she is a household contact of a 35-year-old male singaporean who works as a senior executive at nets, and who is a linked case detected through surveillance.
tuesday is the first day since june 29, 2020 to have zero imported cases reported.
there were also no new cases from workers' dormitories.
the weekly total number of community cases is 60 this week, down from 93 the previous week.
but the number of unlinked cases has risen to 18 in the past week, compared with 10 cases in the week before.
there are currently 44 active clusters, down from 46 on monday.
as at tuesday night, 137 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 233 are recuperating at community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
please update your browser
          your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website.
a list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.
just click on the icons to get to the download page.
log in with your social accountfor japanese condom makers, the olympics was supposed to be a golden opportunity, with hordes of eager tourists and tens of thousands of their innovative, ultra-thin prophylactics given to athletes.
but a ban on overseas fans, strict virus rules, and regulations preventing the distribution of their premium condoms to competitors have left manufacturers deflated.
since the 1988 seoul games, hundreds of thousands of free condoms have been distributed at the olympics, to encourage safe sex as the world's elite athletes mingle at close quarters.
while organisers are still expected to hand out 160,000 at the pandemic-postponed games, which start next month, virus rules should limit interaction in the olympic village.
the rulebook for athletes specifically warns them to "avoid unnecessary forms of physical contact", leaving some wondering why condoms are being distributed at all.
the plan to give them out "is something i just cannot comprehend", tweeted ken noguchi, a japanese mountaineer and environmental activist.
games organisers say distributing condoms is meant to raise awareness about hiv/aids, and that the international olympic committee has asked for the handouts to continue this year, despite the pandemic.
"the distributed condoms are not meant to be used at the olympic village," the organising committee told afp.
instead they are supposed to be "brought back by athletes to their respective home countries and to help them support the campaign to raise awareness", they added.
while the distribution is going ahead, there's a wrinkle for manufacturers: a ban on their prized model, condoms that are just 0.
01mm thick.
as soon as tokyo was named 2020 host, japanese condom firms thrust ahead with their manufacturing to ensure maximum coverage in time for the games.
now it turns out the manufacturers can only distribute their latex-based condoms, while the ultra-thin models are made of polyurethane, according to the japan condoms industrial association.
"when i learned about the requirement, i thought, 'oh my god.
.
.
can that be right?"
an industry source told afp.
"we had really counted on being able to offer these (ultra-thin) ones.
"it's a far cry from the heady excitement in the run-up to the games before they were postponed last year.
in 2018, leading condom-maker sagami rubber industries opened a new factory in malaysia to meet the expected rise in demand.
"it's only japanese companies that now manufacture condoms as thin as 0.
01-0.
02mm," spokesman hiroshi yamashita told afp at the time.
"we see (the tokyo games) as an extremely precious opportunity to let the world know about japan's high technology.
"the pandemic has brought on hard times, with japan's borders effectively closed to tourists and olympic organisers barring overseas spectators for the first time in history.
in tokyo's quirky harajuku and bustling shibuya neighbourhoods, the condomania boutiques managed by koji negishi usually attract large numbers of tourists.
but "foreign tourists have basically disappeared from this area, compared to 2019", he told afp.
negishi's shops stock a variety of products intended to appeal to visitors, ranging from the famed barely-there prophylactics to souvenirs printed with iconic ukiyoe woodblock prints, like the "great wave" with mount fuji in the background.
"the ones that are designed as souvenirs don't sell at all," negishi said mournfully.
"now our shop is staying afloat thanks to regular customers from the neighbourhood," he added.
however, virus restrictions in tokyo have also reduced the number of japanese customers.
an industry source said domestic tastes appear to favour condoms with extra lubricant, rather than the ultra-thin style.
"from a safe sex perspective, what we want is people using any condom, rather than none," he said.
"so at the end of the day, whatever people choose because it feels good to them is a good thing to us.
"© 2016 2021 pt.
bina media tenggara
singapore: the people's association (pa) decision to cancel a meeting with a couple whose wedding photo the pa turned into a cut-out standee is a "missed opportunity for constructive dialogue", said ms sarah bagharib, the woman in the photo.
the standee had been used without the couple's permission as part of hari raya decorations at a tiong bahru estate in radin mas constituency.
on tuesday (jun 15), ms sarah, a communications specialist, responded to a statement the pa issued on monday explaining why it had decided not to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah.
the pa said it had offered the meeting to apologise to the couple in person, and to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve.
the pa, in that statement on facebook, then explained why it had decided to cancel the meeting, saying comments that ms sarah had made online led the pa to believe that her purpose in meeting them had "gone far beyond the radin mas incident".
the pa also said ms sarah "characterised this incident as 'racist'" and that she "shared claims that this incident 'perpetuate the racist culture'".
"these are accusations we reject.
while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said the pa in monday's statement.
it added that ms sarah had made a call online for the public to share their messages and suggestions to the pa.  it said that the meeting should not be "appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident".
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting," pa said.
sarah bagharib respondsin an instagram post on tuesday evening, ms sarah said that it was disappointing that pa had decided to cancel the meeting, which had been scheduled to take place earlier in the day at 10am.
"while there was an infringement of our privacy and intellectual property rights, our intentions have always been clear from the start to be active citizens and to positively contribute to making singapore a better, more inclusive home for our daughter," she said.
"we feel this is a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue; for thoughts and suggestions of members of the community to be relayed, and also for the people's association to listen to the people's voices.
it is unfortunate that the pa has turned this opportunity down.
"she added that the incident did not just affect her and her husband through the "culturally insensitive" depiction of hari raya celebrations, but also the "wider community" that celebrates hari raya.
"we will continue to advocate for deeper intercultural understanding and greater social cohesion in our everyday lives as singaporeans," ms sarah said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the woman at the centre of a controversy over the misuse of her wedding photograph for hari raya aidilfitri decorations has responded to the people's association's (pa) decision to cancel a planned meeting, saying it was a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue.
in a statement on tuesday (june 15), communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, said it was disappointing that the pa has decided to cancel the meeting with her and her husband that was meant to take place at 10am on tuesday.
"while there was an infringement of our privacy and intellectual property rights, our intentions have always been clear from the start to be active citizens and to positively contribute to making singapore a better, more inclusive home for our daughter," she said.
she was referring to how her and her husband's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency recently.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
however, the pa on monday announced that it had decided to cancel the meeting, citing disagreements with the couple over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
the pa noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting, and said it did not see why the meeting "should be appropriated as a platform for (ms sarah) to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident".
it had also said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuates the racist culture" and was "racist", and rejected these claims.
in her response to the pa's decision, ms sarah said that the incident did not just affect her and her husband through the "culturally insensitive" depiction of hari raya aidilfitri celebrations, but also the wider community that celebrates hari raya aidilfitri.
"we are all equal stakeholders in the work that the pa does.
we feel this is a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue; for thoughts and suggestions of members of the community to be relayed, and also for the people's association to listen to the people's voices.
it is unfortunate that the pa has turned this opportunity down," she said.
"we will continue to advocate for deeper intercultural understanding and greater social cohesion in our everyday lives as singaporeans," ms sarah added.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
a post shared by sarah bagharib (@sarahbagharib)it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also said that what happened in radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
it added that it will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of singapore's different cultures.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: a 42-year-old man has been arrested for alleged disorderly behaviour at a funeral in boon lay, the police said on tuesday (jun 15).
on monday, police reported that14 men were arrestedfor being suspected members of an unlawful society after a large group of people turned up at the funeral, which was held on sunday in the vicinity of block 191 boon lay drive.
all the 15 arrests, including that of the 42-year-old suspect, took place on sunday, said the police, adding they were aware that several videos of a funeral procession were circulating online.
videos seen by cna show a large crowd of people walking with a group carrying a coffin.
the videos also show people gathered at a car park where a funeral truck is parked.
cna has contacted west coast town council for more information.
on tuesday, police said that the 14 suspects who were arrested are aged between 17 and 40.
"preliminary investigations revealed that two purported secret society members were allegedly wearing shirts emblazoned with their secret society's insignia," added the police.
anyone convicted of being a member or acting as a member of an unlawful society can be fined up to s$5,000, jailed for up to three years, or both.
the police are also looking into potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures during the funeral procession.
those found guilty of flouting a covid-19 control order can be fined up to s$10,000 on first conviction, jailed up to six months, or both.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the youth unemployment rate climbed higher last year amid the covid-19 pandemic, compared with previous downturns, the ministry of manpower said on thursday (june 17), as part of its labour market report for the first quarter.
the annual average resident youth unemployment rate hit 10.
6 per cent, higher than the 8.
8 per cent in the 2009 global financial crisis and the 9.
3 per cent in 2003 with the sars pandemic.
mom said: "this could reflect greater difficulties among youth trying to secure part-time or temporary employment in the retail and food and beverage industries.
"it added that these sectors were more severely hit by the pandemic, compared with previous recessions.
youth are defined as those aged 15 to 24. about four in 10 youth in employment are in temporary jobs or contract work, the report said.
they are mostly students who work on the side.
unemployment rate among youth is also consistently higher than other age groups, reflecting the job search of fresh graduates entering the labour market, for instance, the report said.
there is also a higher churn among this age group as they explore various options to find a suitable job.
those who are studying might also frequently move between temporary or part-time jobs.
mom noted that youth unemployment is mostly transitional and short term.
the youth long-term unemployment rate last year was still comparable to previous crises.
it stood at 1.
1 per cent in 2020, similar to the 1.
3 per cent recorded in 2003 and the 1 per cent in 2009. singapore's youth long-term unemployment rate is also one of the lowest when compared with other economies such as france, britain and hong kong, the report showed.
the report also studied the proportion of young people who are not in employment, education or training.
this reflects the difficulty among youth in finding a job, and their likelihood of being idle economically.
the prevalence of youth in such a situation rose to 5.
3 per cent last year, compared with 4.
5 per cent in 2019. but the report added that this figure remains low, relative to international counterparts.
mom said: "taken together with singapore's good international standing in terms of low unemployment and long-term unemployment rates, the favourable labour market outcomes of our youths attest to our quality education and training system.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
more singaporeans staying single, having fewer babiesamid singapore's slowest decade of population growth since independence, more singaporeans are staying single, and even those who marry are having fewer babies.
the nation's sixth census also found that singapore residents of all ages and races are now better educated, and more do not consider themselves as having a religion.
more than 3,400 staff and visitors of ion test negativemore than 3,400 retail staff and visitors of ion orchard who had to take a compulsory covid-19 swab test have tested negative for the virus.
the ministry of health (moh) said it concluded the mandatory testing on tuesday.
another 11,395 people who visited the mall voluntarily stepped forward for testing, said moh.
biden, putin meet for first summit to iron out us-russia relationsunited states president joe biden and russian president vladimir putin sat down in a lakeside geneva villa yesterday for their first summit since mr biden took office.
both had said they hoped for more stable and predictable relations, even though they were at odds over everything from arms control and cyber hacking to election interference and ukraine.
new covid-19 treatment spells hope for indiatraumatised by its recent calamitous battle with covid-19 and apprehensive of a third wave, india has found a silver lining in a new treatment for covid-19 patients a powerful infusion of laboratory-made antibodies.
several indian hospitals reported encouraging results after using this therapy on some patients.
man's death ruled as a misadventurethe death of a man who made headlines more than 20 years ago for being singapore's youngest bone marrow donor as a 15-month-old infant has been ruled as a misadventure.
mr seamus shi liang died on dec 2 last year after a part of a machine he was fixing while working fell on his head.
delay in delivery of tesla's first cars heretesla's delivery of its first cars here has been delayed by between two and six months, its schedule upset by a worldwide chip shortage, the pandemic and high demand.
buyers who have been in touch with the company said it had secured certificates of entitlement for its first cars in the may and june tenders.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
geneva • us president joe biden and his russian counterpart vladimir putin met in geneva yesterday for their first summit since mr biden took office, but their talks lasted less than four hours far less than mr biden's advisers had said they expected.
both had said they hoped for more stable and predictable relations, even though they were at odds over everything from arms control and cyber hacking to election interference and ukraine.
mr putin and mr biden shook hands on arrival at the villa la grange, but the news that there would be no joint news conference meant there was none of the joviality that accompanied a 2018 meeting between mr putin and then us president donald trump.
"mr president, i'd like to thank you for your initiative to meet today," mr putin said, sitting next to mr biden.
he added: "us and russian relations have a lot of issues accumulated that require the highest-level meeting.
"mr biden said they would try to determine areas of cooperation and mutual interest.
"it is always better to meet face-to-face.
"he flashed a "thumbs-up" to reporters as he left the lakeside villa where the talks were held and got into his limousine.
aides had earlier played down hopes for the summit.
"we're not expecting a big set of deliverables out of this meeting," a senior united states official said.
"i'm not sure that any agreements will be reached," said mr putin's foreign policy adviser, mr yuri ushakov.
the first round of talks which included mr biden, mr putin, us secretary of state antony blinken and russian foreign minister sergei lavrov lasted almost two hours, officials said.
talks resumed after a break, with moscow's ambassador to the us, mr anatoly antonov, who was recalled to russia in march, among those present.
that round ended after about an hour.
relations between moscow and washington have been deteriorating for years, notably with russia's 2014 annexation of crimea from ukraine, its 2015 intervention in syria and us charges denied by moscow of meddling in the 2016 election that brought mr trump to the white house.
they sank further in march when mr biden said he thought mr putin was a "killer", prompting russia to recall mr antonov for consultations.
the us recalled its own ambassador in april.
kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said the two presidents would "need to determine how to proceed with the heads of the diplomatic missions", according to russian news agencies.
while the issues were difficult, the immediate surroundings of villa la grange, a mansion set in a 30-ha park overlooking lake geneva, was at least serene, with a heavy police presence.
arms control is one area where progress has historically been possible despite wider disagreements.
in february, russia and the us extended for five years the new start treaty, which caps the number of strategic nuclear warheads they can deploy and limits the land-and submarine-based missiles and bombers to deliver them.
the senior us official said mr biden would also define areas of vital national interest where russian misconduct would bring a response.
mr biden signed an executive order in april giving washington wide latitude to impose sanctions on moscow.
in a sign of the strain in ties, there was no joint meal.
mr putin, 68, was due to hold his news conference shortly after the end of talks, and mr biden, 78, some 45 minutes later.
mr vladimir frolov, a former russian diplomat, said mr putin wanted russia to be treated with respect, as members of the soviet politburo were in the 1960s-1980s, with "a symbolic recognition of russia's geopolitical parity with the us".
"in exchange, they (moscow) would be willing to cut back on some of the loony stuff," mr frolov said.
this might mean "no poisonings, no physical violence, no arrests/kidnappings of us and russian nationals; no interference in domestic politics".
mr trump's summit with mr putin in helsinki included a meeting accompanied only by interpreters, but mr biden and mr putin had no solo talks.
standing beside mr putin in helsinki, mr trump refused to blame him for meddling in the 2016 us election, casting doubt on the findings of his own intelligence agencies and sparking a storm of domestic criticism.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
yangon (reuters) some camps dotted in the forest have a few dozen people, some more than a thousand.
the displaced sleep packed together under plastic sheeting for protection from myanmar's monsoon rains.
food is short and there are signs of disease spreading, according to people who have fled recent fighting in eastern myanmar's kayah state just one of several conflicts to surge since the feb 1 coup toppled elected leader aung san suu kyi.
"some children are suffering diarrhoea.
it is difficult to get clean water here.
some people didn't get a chance to bring rice or food," said 26-year-old foung, who gave only one name for fear of retribution.
"we pray," he said, sharing pictures of the tarpaulin slung between boulders under the trees where he now sleeps.
the united nations estimates nearly 110,000 people have been displaced in myanmar's kayah state by the recent violence.
with new fighting in northern and western myanmar, nearly 200,000 people have fled homes elsewhere since the coup, by far the biggest mass movement since the 2017 exodus of 700,000 rohingya muslims in the face of an army offensive.
the junta has branded its opponents as terrorists including peoples defence forces such as the newly formed karenni national defence force which has been fighting in the region since last month, initially inflicting casualties on the army too.
although the group said it would halt attacks on tuesday (june 15) after appeals from communities, many of those taking refuge in the forest show little sign of readiness to take the risk of heading back to their homes.
"some people from remote villages went home to take bags of rice and stuff during the ceasefire period, but most do not dare to stay," said mr john canaydy, from a village near the town of demoso, centre of much of the fighting.
"staying in the camp is safer than staying in our own homes," said mr canaydy, who is on the junta's wanted list for taking part in anti-military protests.
in a bulletin on tuesday, the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs said aid efforts by national and international groups to complement the work of local communities had not been sufficient to address all needs.
"efforts have been met with access challenges due to insecurity and roadblocks," it said.
some displaced people have tried to sneak into deserted towns and villages under cover of darkness to try to get food to bring back to the forest.
at least three volunteers had been killed by the junta's forces when they tried to bring help, said mr banya khung aung, director of the karenni human rights group.
"one-third of the population are now in the forest," he said.
"neglect may cost many lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
tokyo: for japanese condom makers, the olympics was supposed to be a golden opportunity, with hordes of eager tourists and tens of thousands of their innovative, ultra-thin prophylactics given to athletes.
but a ban on overseas fans, strict virus rules, and regulations preventing the distribution of their premium condoms to competitors have left manufacturers deflated.
since the 1988 seoul games, hundreds of thousands of free condoms have been distributed at the olympics, to encourage safe sex as the world's elite athletes mingle at close quarters.
while organisers are still expected to hand out 160,000 at the pandemic-postponed games, which start next month, covid-19 rules should limit interaction in the olympic village.
the rulebook for athletes specifically warns them to "avoid unnecessary forms of physical contact", leaving some wondering why condoms are being distributed at all.
the plan to give them out "is something i just cannot comprehend", tweeted ken noguchi, a japanese mountaineer and environmental activist.
games organisers say distributing condoms is meant to raise awareness about hiv/aids, and that the international olympic committee has asked for the handouts to continue this year, despite the pandemic.
"the distributed condoms are not meant to be used at the olympic village," the organising committee told afp.
instead they are supposed to be "brought back by athletes to their respective home countries and to help them support the campaign to raise awareness", they added.
while the distribution is going ahead, there's a wrinkle for manufacturers: a ban on their prized model, condoms that are just 0.
01mm thick.
hard timesas soon as tokyo was named 2020 host, japanese condom firms thrust ahead with their manufacturing to ensure maximum coverage in time for the games.
now it turns out the manufacturers can only distribute their latex-based condoms, while the ultra-thin models are made of polyurethane, according to the japan condoms industrial association.
"when i learned about the requirement, i thought, 'oh my god .
.
.
can that be right?"
an industry source told afp.
"we had really counted on being able to offer these (ultra-thin) ones.
"it's a far cry from the heady excitement in the run-up to the games before they were postponed last year.
in 2018, leading condom-maker sagami rubber industries opened a new factory in malaysia to meet the expected rise in demand.
"it's only japanese companies that now manufacture condoms as thin as 0.
01-0.
02mm," spokesman hiroshi yamashita told afp at the time.
"we see (the tokyo games) as an extremely precious opportunity to let the world know about japan's high technology.
"the pandemic has brought on hard times, with japan's borders effectively closed to tourists and olympic organisers barring overseas spectators for the first time in history.
in tokyo's quirky harajuku and bustling shibuya neighbourhoods, the condomania boutiques managed by koji negishi usually attract large numbers of tourists.
but "foreign tourists have basically disappeared from this area, compared to 2019", he told afp.
negishi's shops stock a variety of products intended to appeal to visitors, ranging from the famed barely-there prophylactics to souvenirs printed with iconic ukiyoe woodblock prints, like the "great wave" with mount fuji in the background.
"the ones that are designed as souvenirs don't sell at all," negishi said mournfully.
"now our shop is staying afloat thanks to regular customers from the neighbourhood," he added.
however, covid-19 restrictions in tokyo have also reduced the number of japanese customers.
an industry source said domestic tastes appear to favour condoms with extra lubricant, rather than the ultra-thin style.
"from a safe sex perspective, what we want is people using any condom, rather than none," he said.
"so at the end of the day, whatever people choose because it feels good to them is a good thing to us.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
bangkok — thailand plans to fully reopen to vaccinated foreign visitors by mid-october as the government seeks to restart the crucial coronavirus-devastated tourism industry, the prime minister announced wednesday.
prime minister prayuth chan-ocha said fully inoculated foreign visitors and returning thai citizens must be allowed entry "without quarantine or other inconvenient restrictions," and that his goal is to open up the country within 120 days.
prayuth acknowledged that the push to re-open might create problems.
"i know this decision comes with some risk because, when we open the country, there will be an increase in infections, no matter how good our precautions," he said.
"but i think when we take into consideration the economic needs of the people, the time has come for us to take that calculated risk.
"tourism is a major contributor to thailand's economy and employs millions of people.
the country attracted nearly 40 million foreign arrivals in 2019, which plunged in 2020 because of an entry ban to control the coronavirus.
prayuth said the government would reconsider the reopening only if a serious situation develops.
the government had previously targeted next january for reopening the country.
thailand is in the midst of a surge in coronavirus cases that started in april and has accounted for more than 80% of the country's 204,595 total confirmed cases and 90% of its 1,525 deaths.
the surge has caused special concern because thailand has been late in securing and deploying vaccine supplies.
so far it only has supplies of sinovac from china and astrazeneca, which is beginning to be produced locally under license.
just over 7% of the country's 69 million people have had at least one dose.
prayuth, who has come under fierce criticism over the vaccine supply situation, said his government is making progress in obtaining other vaccines, including those from pfizer, johnson & johnson and moderna.
"to date, we have signed reservation and supply contracts for 105.
5 million doses to be delivered this year, putting us ahead of our target for vaccine supplies," he said.
"based on our current plans, we will administer an average of about 10 million shots a month from july, so that by early october almost 50 million people will have had at least their first shot administered.
"thailand plans to begin a trial project next month in which it will allow fully vaccinated visitors from abroad to enter phuket without quarantine.
but the so-called "phuket sandbox" still entails restrictions, including a requirement to stay on the island for 14 days before heading to the mainland.
the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
photo:cfp

                    thursday, 17 jun 2021
                in the video that went viral, ngee ann polytechnic lecturer tan boon lee (left) was seen making racist remarks to an interracial couple in orchard road.
dave park ash/facebook, yong li xuansingapore (the straits times/ann): ngee ann polytechnic (np) is in the process of sacking senior lecturer tan boon lee for serious misconduct.
this comes after a video posted on june 6 of tan making racist remarks to an interracial couple in orchard road went viral.
this was followed by an instagram post on june 9 by np alumna nurul fatimah iskandar, who alleged that tan made islamophobic comments in a class in 2017. np said it made the decision after completing its internal investigations into both incidents.
it has charged tan – a lecturer at the school of engineering – with a serious breach of its staff code of conduct, and "is proceeding to terminate his service".
"our staff members are expected to respect cultural, ethnic and religious differences in our society.
they must uphold secularity and impartiality at all times.
.
.
the disciplinary action meted out against the staff in question reflects our commitment to provide a safe, inclusive and respectful environment for our campus community," said np in a statement on thursday (june 17).
police investigations into both incidents are ongoing.
in her instagram post, nurul, now 22 and a student at the national university of singapore, said she had reported tan's insensitive comments to np at the time.
np said it has been unable to locate any records of her feedback after searching its various feedback channels and checking with nurul on her np mailbox archives.
"in our conversation with her, she indicated that she could not recall whether she had e-mailed her feedback on the incident or raised it during a post-course focus group discussion (fgd) in 2017, " it added.
fgds are typically held at the end of every semester to seek students' feedback on courses and lecturers.
"nonetheless, we are committed to preventing a similar incident from occurring again, and will ensure that students are made aware of the appropriate channels for them to provide feedback in a safe manner, " it said.
"we will also advise our staff on how to manage and report feedback that they may receive outside of these channels, as appropriate.
"np also apologised for the distress that tan's comments caused nurul, and said it has offered her counselling support.
last thursday, nurul told the straits times that tan had used lesson time to initiate an offensive discussion about islam.
"he opened websites about islam and explained why he didn't agree with certain quranic verses.
he then singled me out, and tried to start a debate on the topic.
it didn't help that i was the only muslim student in class and i sat in the front row, " she said.
np said that it will make all feedback channels for students more accessible and visible on its website, and publicise them on its campus digital screens.
these channels include a whistle-blowing e-mail address for students – tellnp@np.
edu.
sg, a general inquiry asknp e-mail address, course experience dialogues and student surveys.
"in addition, students can share their feedback with their staff advisers at any time.
we would like to assure students that all feedback will be taken seriously and handled in confidence, " the polytechnic said.
np added that it would be reviewing its internal feedback monitoring processes to identify and resolve gaps.
"we also remind all staff to strictly adhere to the staff code of conduct and create a safe learning environment for all in np, " it said.
the straits times/asia news network
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                ngee ann
                                                                ,
                                                                                                polytechnic
                                                                ,
                                                                                                lecturer
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sack
                                                                ,
                                                                                                racist
                                                                ,
                                                                                                an boon lee



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
it was his day off and he was resting at home, nursing a fever after getting his second covid-19 vaccine dose a day earlier.
mr muhammad nazlan was watching tv with his wife on sunday night while their three children were out at the playground, located about 50m in front of his housing board unit.
suddenly, his daughter, 10, burst into their first-storey flat, screaming and crying.
mr muhammad, 34, a pest control technician, told the new paper yesterday: "i could not hear what exactly she was saying.
all i knew was something bad had happened to my son.
"i rushed out with my wife and saw my son lying on the ground, his arm stuck to a lamp post.
my son was unconscious but his eyes were still open, and i thought he was gone.
"his eldest son, 14-year-old muhammad rifqy, was playing football with a friend when both teenagers got an electric shock from a lamp post near the fitness corner at block 63 lorong 5 toa payoh.
the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said it received a call for assistance at 8.
25pm and two people were taken to kk women's and children's hospital.
mr muhammad said his son was initially in the intensive care unit but was moved to a regular ward on monday afternoon.
he said rifqy's friend had been discharged.
while his son is conscious, mr muhammad's friend, mr khairul anuar, 36, said rifqy is "not his old self" yet.
"i have been talking to him through video calls.
he is traumatised and his speech is slurred.
sometimes he talks using one word at a time.
but at least he is slowly recovering," said mr khairul, a grabfood rider.
[[nid:532833]]it could have been much worse, if not for mr muhammad's prompt action.
rifqy had lost consciousness from an electric shock after he went to retrieve a ball that had rolled towards the lamp post.
"when i saw him lying there, i quickly tried to pull him away from the lamp post but his arm was stuck to it," said mr muhammad, who is asthmatic.
"that part of his arm looked like it was burned.
my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless.
i also felt another two shocks, one in my hand and one in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away.
"all i could think of was: if he dies, i also die with him.
"mr muhammad said his son seemed as if he had tensed up, and he felt helpless.
"i felt like a useless father because i wanted to give him cpr (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) but people around me were reminding me not to touch him," he said.
the scdf arrived moments later to tend to his son and the friend.
mr muhammad said his son told him the two had got to know each other three days prior to their sunday meeting, and the boy received a jolt when he touched rifqy.
when tnp visited the scene yesterday afternoon, workers were completing the installation of four new lamp posts.
mr muhammad, whose youngest is a five-year-old boy, said staff from bishan-toa payoh town council (btptc), which manages the estate, had contacted him and offered assistance.
in a statement last night, the town council said it had completed checks to establish the probable cause of the electric shock.
"the btptc licensed electrical worker (lew) noticed a small tear to the insulation of the live wire inside the lamp post.
this would not be visible unless we remove the junction box.
"from the finding, the lew assessed that the exposed part of the wire touching the metal part of the lamp post could be the cause of the electric shock," said the town council.
"the lew has also checked other lamp posts within the same circuitry and found no similar situation.
the incident could be an isolated case as there was also no previous similar incident of such nature.
"the btptc added that works to rectify the issue were completed yesterday and it will "continue to ensure the safety of (the) electrical installations (it manages)".
"i have lived in this flat for 13 years.
my children have been playing at the playground since they were babies.
but now, even with new lamp posts installed, i am not sure if it is safe to let my kids play outside any more," said mr muhammad.
"all i can think of is if my son will recover fully.
i am worried because this is not just a fall or a fracture.
i don't know how he will be affected by this in the long run.
"also read: elderly couple and son die after suspected electrocution incident in bathroom of lakeside flatthis article was first published in the new paper.
permission required for reproduction.
shell's company logo is pictured at a gas station in zurich april 8, 2015.  bg group's bonds traded up strongly on wednesday on the back of royal dutch shell's us$70bn offer to buy the uk firm.
reuters/arnd wiegmannsingapore, june 17 (reuters) royal dutch shell (rdsa.
l) has signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding (mou) with singapore state firm jtc corp (jtc.
ul) to explore developing a solar farm on part of a landfill in southern singapore, the companies said on thursday.
if successful, the solar farm will reduce the city-state's carbon emissions and meet its growing clean energy needs, they said in a statement.
the solar farm will be the first large-scale solar project in singapore where a sanitary landfill is also used for clean energy generation, they said, adding that the project is aligned with singapore's target to increase solar deployment to at least 2 global warming potential (gwp) by 2030. the mou is also supported by singapore's national environment agency and energy market authority.
jtc and shell said they will jointly conduct a request for information (rfi) exercise on june 24 to source for "innovative solutions from the market".
the solar farm, likely to be located on part of semakau landfill which is about two kilometres from shell's bukom manufacturing site, is expected take up an area of 60 hectares (148.
3 acres) and have a capacity of at least 72 megawatt peak(mwp), sufficient to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 37,000 tonnes a year.
land-scarce singapore has been finding ways to harness solar energy, which it finds the most promising renewable energy source.
shell said as part of a 10-year plan, it is changing its manufacturing business where bukom is pivoting from a crude-oil, fuels-based product slate towards new, low-carbon value chains.
our standards: the thomson reuters trust principles.
subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
democratic u. s.  congressional members sent a letter on wednesday to the environmental protection agency, urging it to reject any action that would exempt oil refiners from obligations to blend biofuels into the nation's fuel mix.
reuters, the news and media division of thomson reuters, is the world's largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day.
reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
the most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
the industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 reuters.
all rights reserved
bytedance ltd. , the parent of hit short video app tiktok, swung to an operating loss of $2.
1 billion last year after it issued more shares to employees ahead of a widely anticipated initial public offering.
the loss compared with operating profit of $684 million in 2019, according to a memo to employees thursday.
that was due in part to higher expenses incurred from share-based compensation to workers, a person familiar with the matter said, while expenses also soared as bytedance boosted spending to acquire users and support its content creators.
it earned gross profit of $19 billion on revenue of $34.
3 billion, which more than doubled.
net loss ballooned to $45 billion, mainly stemming from accounting adjustments.
a bytedance spokesperson confirmed the figures in an email to bloomberg news.
the losses were earlier reported by the wall street journal.
speculation over a potential bytedance ipo has been growing, with the company said to target a listing of its chinese assets that could raise several billion dollars, people with knowledge of the matter told bloomberg news in april.
founder zhang yiming announced in may he was stepping down as chief executive officer to focus on longer-term strategy, just as beijing steps up scrutiny of its internet firms and their billionaire founders.
read more: bytedance founder steps down as ceo ahead of mega ipoas of december, bytedance had more than 1.
9 billion monthly active users worldwide for its products from tiktok to chinese twin douyin and the news aggregator toutiao.
singapore — a landlord who kept exposing himself to a female tenant was jailed for 11 weeks and fined $2,000 on tuesday (15 june) after he was found guilty of all six related charges.
over about seven months, the victim would turn around to catch 56-year-old chan eng hui in the buff while he made eye contact with her.
chan, who has been dealt with for previous incidents of indecent exposure in 2009 and 2010, was found guilty of four charges of insulting the modesty of a woman and two of using criminal force on her.
the victim's age and nationality was not revealed in court.
she cannot be named to protect her identity.
the victim moved into the flat on 1 april 2018, renting a bed space from him for $250 a month.
she moved out in january 2019.  initially, the victim said she was on "talking terms" with chan, but stopped talking to him after a female tenant informed her that chan had appeared naked in her room.
between 10 and 12 may 2018 while both were in the flat, chan held her hand and said "go, go, let's just go eat.
"she rejected him and said "you can just talk and not get touchy", before going into her room.
she did not consent to the touch and felt annoyed by what she perceived to be a disrespectful act.
in the same period, chan grabbed her as she walked past a sofa in the living room, in an attempt to pull her in his direction.
in response, the victim flung his hand away and told him not to get touchy before entering her room.
from end-june to mid-july 2018, while both were in the flat at around 6.
30am, the victim was walking out of the kitchen when she saw chan standing inside the toilet naked with the door open.
he was touching his private parts as he made eye contact with her.
even as the victim asked him what he was doing, chan continued touching his private parts.
chan's wife had been sleeping then.
from the moment chan began exposing himself to her, the victim would use weapons to protect herself and lock the door before sleeping.
a few days later, in the evening, while the victim was washing something in the kitchen, she turned around to see chan naked again, standing in front of the washing machine.
after they made eye contact, chan smiled and said he wanted to shower in the toilet.
furious, the victim scolded him.
the same act happened between september and october, while the victim was at the kitchen wash basin, prompting the victim to throw a bowl towards him.
between 1 august and 20 september 2018, at around 6.
30am, the victim was leaving the flat when she turned around to see chan naked.
the victim then shouted at him, "you pervert.
you like.
.
.
you enjoy letting people see, is it?
then you should let everyone take a look at you.
"two audio recordings recorded by the victim and submitted to court captured an exchange between chan and the victim.
in one recording, the victim says, "why did you don't wear your pant when you appeared behind me suddenly?"
chan is heard replying, "you have not agreed to me for so long.
you see that fish, you think i can control myself.
when you don't give the fish to the cat, what do you think it will feel?
i am a man, you think i am made of wood, is it?
you don't have feeling, but i am a man, i have feeling?
"after 30 december 2018, chan changed the lock of her bedroom door so that the victim was unable to lock the door.
the woman would then use a chair to block the door.
in his defence, chan claimed that he was wearing his shorts at all times.
the victim eventually reported the matter to the police on 23 december 2018.  when asked why she did not do so earlier, she said that she worried it would be troublesome as she was working here, and was concerned that the incident would affect her work permit.
in finding chan guilty, district judge lau qiuyu described him as "evasive" and his evidence "externally inconsistent".
while chan initially argued that he was in a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship with the victim, he later claimed that they were just friends and he found acts of intimacy repulsive.
dj lau added that she was unable to accept his claim that he did not intentionally expose himself to the woman.
chan had claimed that the exposure was accidental as the wind had blown open the toilet door while he was urinating.
for another incident, chan claimed that he had slipped on washing powder and that he hit himself, causing him to stroke his private parts in pain.
when asked for his mitigation, chan said he had nothing to say.
he told the court that he was unable to pay the fine.
he will serve two weeks' jail in default of the fine.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:of 25 new covid cases in singapore, 19 local including 1 dorm residentman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022the displaced sleep packed together under plastic sheeting for protection from myanmar's monsoon rains.
food is short and there are signs of disease spreading, according to people who have fled recent fighting in eastern myanmar's kayah state just one of several conflicts to surge since the feb.  1 coup toppled elected leader aung san suu kyi.
the united nations estimates nearly 110,000 people have been displaced in myanmar's kayah state by the recent violence.
check out these new donuts flavors from krispy kreme ph for father's day.
celebrate you dad this father's day with krispy kreme new flavors.
the post krispy kreme releases three new coffee glaze cake doughnuts appeared first on theasianparent philippines: your guide to pregnancy, baby & raising kids.
finding it increasingly challenging for you to enjoy uninterrupted sleep with singapore's notorious heat?
try this fuss-free method that doesn't involve burning a hole in your pocket.
cebuano forward carl tamayo showed the rest of the philippines that he belongs on the gilas pilipinas men's national basketball team as he made big plays down the stretch in their 81-78 victory overwith almost no tours having been undertaken in the past year, the pollstar awards pivoted in two different directions for the 31st annual edition of the show held wednesday night at the beverly hilton hotel ballroom.
one shift in focus was to deliver awards to the top touring artists of the last decade, instead of [.
.
.
]the united states is ending a cambodian aid programme aimed at protecting one of the country's biggest wildlife sanctuaries, citing worsening deforestation and the silencing of those who speak out about the destruction of natural resources.
the u. s.  embassy in phnom penh said in a statement on thursday that it had invested more than $100 million to combat deforestation and despite some progress high rates of illegal logging had continued in the prey lang wildlife sanctuary.
since 2016, prey lang had "lost approximately 38,000 hectares (93,900 acres) of forest, nearly nine percent of its forest cover," it said, accusing cambodian authorities of not adequately prosecuting wildlife crimes or putting a stop to illicit activities.
naho has played a crucial role in fighting japan's two deadly coronavirus waves this year, the worst the country has faced since the pandemic began.
as he counts down the days to his third straight olympics, tonga's famously chiseled flagbearer pita taufatofua is also contemplating offers for a career in movies and documentaries.
a pig that became an unlikely national icon in china after surviving 36 days under rubble from a powerful 2008 earthquake has died at the age of 14, sparking an outpouring of emotion on thursday.
the milky way moving across the night sky made for a beautiful background for the pack creek fire burning in utah's east on june 12. a timelapse video taken over four and a half hours by temuji nana shows the galaxy and shooting stars while the fire burns through the night.
firefighting authorities said the blaze began in manti-lasal national forest on june 9 due to an abandoned campfire.
the fire had grown to 8,518 acres by june 16.  credit: temujin nana via storyfulcebuana volleyball star cherry ann "sisi" rondina and the rest of the philippine beach volleyball team start their bid for berths in the tokyo olympics as they compete in the asian volleyball confederationnelson cruz hit a three-run homer against his former team, rookie starter bailey ober struck out six and the minnesota twins beat the seattle mariners 7-2 on wednesday night.
cruz's second-deck shot to left field in the fifth inning made it 6-0 and helped snap the twins' three-game losing streak.
"it's fun to watch," minnesota manager rocco baldelli said.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
the gilas pilipinas plunge back into action on friday evening when they battle the up-and-coming indonesia in the fiba asia cup qualifiers at the angeles university foundation gym in pampanga.
tip off isbeachgoers in st petersburg, florida, were treated to a close encounter with a school of cownose rays on june 13. this drone footage taken by michael mccarthy shows the rays gliding around swimmers, some of whom are visibly sunburnt.
"i saw this group of cownose rays while kayaking at the beach and launched the drone to get abetter look at them," he told storyful.
"as they were swimming right up against the shoreline they startled quite a few people at the beach.
"cownose rays are known to frequent the area and are generally considered harmless to humans.
credit: see through canoe via storyfulas the federal reserve takes initial steps toward removing its massively accommodative policy, investors are preparing for the main show ahead.
fed officials on wednesday penciled in two potential rate hikes in 2023, sooner than policymakers had previously projected, and chair jerome powell edged closer to unveiling plans to taper the fed's $120 billion a month of bond purchases.
powell went so far as to describe the two-day gathering as the "talking-about talking-about meeting," a glib reference to his protestations earlier this year that he and his colleagues were not even "talking about talking about" tighter policy.
don't you have a plan yet for this father's day?
why not try the airbnb online experiences that your dad and your whole family can enjoy.
the post give dad a treat this father's day with airbnb online experiences appeared first on theasianparent philippines: your guide to pregnancy, baby & raising kids.
china are still a long way from the football superpower they crave to be, but under li tie they have offered a glimmer of hope to fans scarred by years of disappointment.
playoff p stepped up in game 5. a family member sought help from the police in alcoy town, cebu for a case that happened in 2018 when her older brother was killed, only to be told "ipabarang ang killers (bewitch the killers by voodoo).
"feeling
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
yangon (reuters) security forces set ablaze a village in central myanmar after clashing there with opponents of the ruling junta, leaving at least two elderly people burned to death, several village residents said on wednesday (june 16).
mrtv state television said the blaze on tuesday at kin ma, a village of about 800 people in the magway region, was caused by"terrorists" and that media who reported otherwise were"deliberately plotting to discredit the military".
reuters was unable to independently verify the cause of the blaze.
a junta spokesman did not answer calls requesting comment.
all that remained of kin ma on wednesday was about 30 houses, with some 200 homes reduced to piles of ash and bricks, according to several villagers who gave accounts of the incident by telephone and photographs seen by reuters.
the blaze was large enough to be recorded by nasa's satellite fire-tracking system at 9.
52 pm on tuesday.
the villagers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that security forces set the fires after confronting opponents of the junta and that at least two people were killed.
a 32-year-old volunteer assisting people displaced from the village said the two people killed were elderly residents who had been unable to flee their home during the fire.
he said some people returned to the village on wednesday and found the bodies.
most of the village's residents remained in hiding in nearby forests, the villagers who spoke with reuters said.
mrtv said 40 "terrorists" torched a house in kin ma, starting a fire that spread to 100 of the village's 225 homes.
myanmar has been gripped by violence and protests since the military overthrew elected leader aung san suu kyi on feb 1, returning as the country's outright rulers after a decade of tentative democracy and economic reform.
the overthrow of ms suu kyi's government, for alleged electoral violations, sparked protests almost daily in many parts of myanmar and ignited conflict between the military and rebel groups.
photographs taken on wednesday of the aftermath showed a thin haze of smoke above kin ma from white embers that smouldered on blackened ground.
burnt planks of wood, sheet metal, bricks and cooking pots were scattered around, with only a few trees left standing.
some images showed animal carcasses.
"reports that the junta has burned down an entire village in magway, killing elderly residents, demonstrate once again that the military continues to commit terrible crimes and has no regard for the people of myanmar," britain's embassy in myanmar said on twitter, quoting its ambassador dan chugg.
smoke is seen rising from a fire in the village of kin ma in myanmar on june 16, 2021.  photo: reuters
human rights groups have accused myanmar's forces of burning hundreds of villages in 2017 during an offensive that drove about 700,000 minority rohingya muslims to flee to bangladesh.
security forces have denied setting fires and in some cases have blamed rohingya for doing so.
western condemnation of the junta has grown over the military's use of force against its opponents.
the assistance association for political prisoners, a human rights group, has said security forces have killed more than 860 civilians, but the military has said the figure is lower.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new delhi (reuters) in india's capital, delhi, thousands of commuters crowded into underground train stations and shopping malls on tuesday (june 15), prompting some doctors to warn it could lead to a resurgence in covid-19 infections.
major indian cities have begun lifting strict lockdowns as the nationwide tally of new infections has dropped to its lowest level in more than two months.
but disease experts and doctors have cautioned that a race towards resuming business as usual would compromise vaccination efforts as only about 5 per cent of all 950 million eligible adults have been inoculated.
doctors say delhi's near-complete reopening is concerning.
the city's authorities have said they would reimpose strict curbs if cases rise.
thousands died in the capital in may as oxygen supplies all but vanished and families pleaded on social media over scarce hospital beds.
people paid 20 times the usual price to secure ambulances and hearses, many died in parking lots, and morgues ran out of space.
"delhi's top #mall saw a footfall of 19,000 people last weekend as soon as it reopened.
have we gone totally mad?"
dr ambrish mithal of max healthcare in new delhi said on twitter.
"wait for #covid19 to explode again- and blame the government, hospitals, country.
"in the early hours of tuesday, delhi's underground rail network put out alerts on twitter about peak traffic and longer waits, responding to commuters angry about long queues.
after a strict five-week lockdown in delhi, the authorities have fully reopened shops and malls, and allowed restaurants to have 50 per cent seating.
suburban rail networks can run at 50 per cent capacity, and offices have been partially reopened.
vaccinations have slowed, however; the city government said inoculation centres for people ages 18 to 44 would start shutting down on tuesday as doses were scarce.
"delhi ought to have unlocked far more scientifically.
we are inviting trouble!"
dr arvinder singh soin, a surgeon and leading liver transplant specialist, said on twitter.
nationwide, india reported 60,471 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest number since march 31, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 caseload now stands at 29.
57 million, the second-highest globally behind the united states.
india added 2,726 deaths overnight, taking the overall tally to 377,031, data showed.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
president biden's first summit meeting with vladimir putin was preceded by reports of persistent cyberattacks by russian state and private actors against sensitive u. s.  targets and a major russian military mobilization along the borders of ukraine, among other provocations.
mr.  biden consequently vowed to reestablish "red lines" with the kremlin ruler, who himself told an interviewer that relations were at their lowest point in years.
so it was somewhat surprising that both leaders emerged from their talks in geneva on wednesday describing a positive exchange and the potential for a more stable and cooperative relationship.
"the talks were quite constructive," said mr.  putin, who went on to praise mr.  biden as "very balanced" and "very experienced. "
"the tone of the entire meeting was very good, positive," agreed the u. s.  president.
"i think there is a genuine prospect for us to significantly improve relations between our countries.
"it would certainly be welcome if mr.  biden's discussion with the russian ruler, and follow-up talks they agreed would take place, led to an end to russia-based cyberattacks, the relaxation of the kremlin's squeeze on the russian operations of radio free europe/radio liberty, and the release of u. s.  citizens unjustly imprisoned in moscow.
mr.  putin hinted "compromise" was possible on all these matters.
mr.  biden further reported that mr.  putin had offered "help" on iran and afghanistan, and that accommodations were possible on the wars in syria and libya, where the two countries back opposing sides.
in short, the rhetoric sounded a lot like that which followed the initial encounters between the past three u. s.  presidents and mr.  putin, who has invariably reneged on his promises and relentlessly escalated his assaults on the u. s.  political system and alliances.
the russian ruler's implacable hostility toward the united states was evident in his performance at a post-summit news conference, in which he repeatedly offered bogus comparisons between his foreign aggressions, his human rights offenses, and u. s.  actions.
his persecution of the peaceful opposition movement led by alexei navalny, he claimed, was comparable to the prosecution of the mob that stormed the u. s.  capitol on jan.  6. mr.  biden called that comparison "ridiculous," but otherwise appeared willing to offer mr.  putin the benefit of the doubt.
mr.  putin surely understood, the president asserted, that the death of mr.  navalny would be "devastating for russia," because of the harm that would be done to the regime's global standing; the kremlin knew that the united states possessed significant cyber capabilities and would use them if russia's cyberattacks continued.
"i think the last thing he wants now is a cold war," mr.  biden said of mr.  putin.
perhaps.
but why, then, is his regime engaged in such mischief-making as seeking to discredit u. s.  vaccines?
who is responsible for the mysterious injuries suffered by u. s.  diplomats and intelligence officials in moscow, havana and even washington?mr.
biden properly devoted much of his european tour to reaffirming u. s.  ties to its major democratic allies after four years of disruption by president donald trump.
mr.  biden underlined his aspiration to lead them in a contest for global influence with resurgent autocracies, led by china and russia.
he was right to meet mr.  putin and seek to reestablish u. s.  red lines.
as for the prospect of "significantly improved relations," mr.  biden said, "we'll find out.
"indeed we will, but there's no reason to believe the outcome will vary from previous u. s.  attempts at cooperation with mr.  putin.
read more:jennifer rubin: what biden knows about being a superpower that republicans don'tmax boot: biden wiped the smirk off putin's facee.
j.  dionne jr. : biden to putin: stability, sure.
but democracy matters.
josh rogin: biden should tell putin to stop harassing u. s.  news organizations in russiathe post's view: russia's fsb poisoned another putin critic.
it's chilling.
latest: putin swaggers toward summit with biden as an old hand at dueling with the westlive updates: biden arrives in geneva for putin summit after meeting with european union leaders in brusselsanalysis and more:amid internal disputes over russia policy, biden has chosen a mix of confrontation and cooperation'part of the club': biden relishes revival of alliances that trump dismissedbiden, e. u.  eliminate long-running aircraft trade dispute, but other trump tariffs still stand in the waybiden takes steps to rein in 'forever wars' in afghanistan and iraqphotos: putin's rocky relationship with american presidentsbiden will give putin a list of demands.
the russian president may ignore them.
nato expands focus to china, a win for biden in his first trip to the battered alliancepresident biden says queen elizabeth ii 'reminded me of my mother'trump's shadow still looms over cloudy skies at g-7 summitthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
singapore — inconsistent and sometimes conflicting information given by officials enforcing quarantine orders (qos) has left some singapore residents alarmed at the lack of clear communication and apparent gaps in procedures.
two women who were recently quarantined – one of them alongside her family and helper – told yahoo news singapore that they found their recent experiences confusing and frustrating.
multiple online comments by others who have served quarantine also suggest that the women's experiences are not unique.
"the whole thing felt a shambles," said elaine (not her real name), a 35-year-old employment pass holder with a background in healthcare.
"everyone in this new world is working as hard as they possibly can.
but they (personnel overseeing quarantine orders) need better leadership and better communication.
"after going for a family staycation at a hotel from 7-9 may with her husband and two children aged one and four, elaine was notified via text on 14 may of possible exposure to a covid case at the hotel pool.
the family and their helper were then issued a seven-day quarantine order by certis officers.
over multiple calls with certis officers about whether the family home was suitable for quarantine and when their swab tests were taking place, the overall impression elaine had was of a "disorganised" effort.
"the next day, someone turned up with a quarantine order and armbands (which we had to wear).
they installed these little black boxes, which work in tandem with the rfid in the armbands," recalled elaine.
"we said we already had the home app, where you can log your temperature three times a day and it tracks your location.
it felt like we were criminals.
"elaine and her two children were eventually conveyed to a hospital for swab tests, but not her husband.
certis officers were "unhelpful" when she called the local security company and asked why.
"when we called moh (ministry of health), they were much more helpful and sent a nurse around to do swab tests.
"she added, "literally no one told us what would happen if we tested positive.
we were really worried that the kids might be taken away from us if they were positive.
"after multiple calls, elaine obtained negative results for herself and her boys, while the results for her husband and helper came two to three days later.
on 15 may, a day before the qo was to end, a nurse was sent to their home, after elaine had made multiple calls to moh to clarify her family's quarantine status, to conduct swab tests.
her one-year-old son was not tested for a second time as the nurse said it was not necessary.
"they told us we would be fine as long as we didn't get a positive," said elaine, who was informed of her four-year-old son's negative test results on 17 may.
however, the next day, there was a knock at the door in the morning.
"my helper was given a document by a certis officer, and she felt she had to sign it.
they didn't tell her what it was for.
it was an extension of my one-year-old boy's qo.
i called moh, and they couldn't give me any info," said elaine, who noted that the family had been to multiple places since the end of their quarantine.
her husband took their younger son to get tested, where he was told that the extension was likely due to the fact that the boy had not been tested when the family was let out of quarantine.
the boy was eventually cleared.
"the lack of communication is very frustrating.
it really impacts your anxiety levels," said elaine.
a 37-year-old lawyer who only wished to be known as ms wang also endured a "frustrating and confusing" experience after being issued a qo from 18-25 may, following her possible exposure to covid-19.
having confined herself to her room, the mother of two was informed that certis officers would assess her home for quarantine suitability but no one turned up.
at the end of the qo, having received a negative swab result on 21 may, she interacted with her family members.
on 26 may, she received an sms telling her to go for a swab test and that she had been issued another qo from 20-29 may.
after numerous calls to the certis hotline, ms wang was told that her qo would be rescinded if she were to get a negative swab result.
the following day, despite her healthhub app displaying a negative result, a certis officer came to issue her the new qo.
she was then told by two other officers over the phone that the negative result was invalid as her quarantine had been extended and she needed another swab.
after multiple calls, her qo was finally rescinded in the evening.
"you basically have to keep calling until you find someone helpful," said ms wang, who was in a "state of anxiety" for fear of possibly infecting her family members.
"the communication is abysmal.
i understand that they need to do this, but they need to manage the process properly.
these are people's lives.
"alluding to prime minister lee hsien loong's remarks last month that the government will take a more aggressive approach to testing and quarantine, she added, "the current process already seems overstretched.
i think it would be so easy to improve this just by being clear.
if you tell people what to expect, there won't be so much anxiety.
"as neither woman wanted to be identified, their detailed accounts and personal details could not be shared with the moh.
yahoo news singapore asked moh about the volume and nature of complaints it has received regarding the serving and enforcement of qos during phase 2 (heightened alert), which lasted from 16 may to 13 june.
in light of pm lee's remarks on more aggressive testing and quarantine, the ministry was also asked if it is confident that it has sufficient resources to test and quarantine potentially thousands more.
in response, an moh spokesperson said that extensive contact tracing, including leveraging on tracetogether and safeentry records, is a key strategy to cast a wide net to isolate and ring-fence any possible emerging transmissions in the community.
the spokesperson noted that "wider rings" are being drawn around cases to combat the more transmissible strains, while more people are now using tracetogether and safeentry, which provides moh with more data for contact tracing and quarantine.
"this has led to a higher number of persons under quarantine (puqs), resulting in delays in the testing and conveyance to quarantine facilities," said the ministry.
"we seek the public's understanding and patience.
we will continue to improve our operating processes and improve communications between the various agencies involved in managing the quarantine process.
"stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:covid swab test personnel not trained to deal with special needs people: rahayu mahzam9 of 14 new covid cases in singapore linked to bukit merah view market clustera fifth of asymptomatic covid patients develop long covid: studyburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
as permission was granted on 10 june for the lawsuit by bus drivers against sbs transit to be heard in the high court, the group of 13 drivers has recently started a crowdfunding campaign to help cover legal fees for the case which has been represented on a pro-bono basis thus far.
one of the drivers, chua qwong meng, started the campaign on behalf of the 13 drivers on gogetfunding, with a target of s$90,000.
"we are trying to raise $90,000 to help with the high court trial which might head up to the court of appeal," said mr chua on the campaign site, adding that "there is too much at stake to stop here now".
he explained that several of the drivers' employment contracts had been terminated since the covid-19 outbreak in singapore became more severe.
this made it difficult for the group to keep up with the instalments of legal fees to their lawyer, m ravi.
fortunately, mr ravi stayed on as their lawyer on a pro-bono basis.
in a facebook post on 10 june, mr ravi explained the same thing, expressing that it has not been easy for him and his team.
he explained his decision to act for the drivers on a pro-bono basis as they were "not able to keep up with their installment payments" for the "small fee" he had charged them.
this is on top of the other pro-bono cases he and his team have already taken on.
on gogetfunding, mr chua wrote: "after careful thinking, discussing with the other bus drivers and with the support of my family and friends, we have decided to crowdfund to help us with the continuance of this case in the high court and even further to the court of appeal if needed.
"stressing the importance of seeing the case through for the rights of all workers in singapore, he added: "we cannot expect our lawyer and his team at k.  k.  cheng law llc to continue bearing all the costs of this suit especially with regard to the numerous extraneous filing and disbursement fees.
"whilst we are certain that mr ravi will give us highly discounted fees for the trial, we want to thank him, and his team at k.  k.  cheng law llc but we cannot expect them to continue this journey with us not being paid.
"we the 13 drivers are fighting for fairness so we must also be fair to our legal team too.
"mr chua went on to emphasise the group's belief that this case presents an opportunity for a review of the employment act to ensure that it protects all workers and is fair.
"this suit will not just be about myself but also about the other 12 bus drivers' suits which is pending the outcome of my suit," he remarked, adding that it will also affect other workers.
the other 12 drivers involved in the case are mr lee chye chong, mr chian poh seng, mr fung chean seng, mr tan ting hock robin, mr thiyagu balan, mr gan kim kiam, mr huzainal hussein, mr lim you onn, mr chiew yi yee, mr meerah mohamed halideen, mr razak hasim, and mr mohamad sani din.
on 11 march, mr ravi revealed that he had filed an application for the suits to be transferred from the magistrate court to the high court "as there are several important questions of law of public interest relating to provisions in the employment act which will affect their cases and potentially all 6000 sbs drivers".
he stated that the suits will be a test for the rights of all employees in singapore.
after hearing from both sides – sbs transit is represented by team of lawyers led by senior counsel davinder singh – justice audrey lim found that the certain questions of law raised in the suits affect not only the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, but also "a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector who may potentially fall within the definition of employees" under part iii of the criminal law (temporary provisions) act (cla).
justice lim also addressed mr chua's action of urging his case to be made a 'test case'.
while the state courts act (sca) does not provide a definition of a 'test case', the judge noted that both sbs transit and the drivers accept the definitions in black's law dictionary, which state that a 'test case' is:1.  a lawsuit brought to establish an important legal principle or right.
such an action is frequently brought by the parties' mutual consent on agreed facts – when that is so, a test case is also sometimes termed amicable action or amicable suit; or2.
an action selected from several suits that are based on the same facts and evidence, raise the same question of law, and have a common plaintiff or a common defendant.
sometimes, when all parties agree, the court orders a consolidation and all parties are bound by the decision in the test case.
– also termed test action.
in the present case, the action brought by the sbs transit drivers to transfer the suit falls within the definition of a "test case", as it fits the second definition stated above, said justice lim.
she also rejected sbs transit's submission that a test case should, on top of the second definition above, include case management "or other concerns which would make the matter unsuitable for determination by the state courts".
on 3 mar last year, five bus drivers argued that by failing to compensate its bus drivers at the basic hourly rate of pay for their waiting time between shifts, sbs transit had breached an implied term stated in their service agreement.
the lawsuit arose after the two parties had failed to reach a settlement in their final mediation session between the first tranche of suits as reported in feb last year.
in a statement of claim filed in the state courts that month, the bus drivers alleged that the company has breached several provisions under the ea — the statutory legislation upon which the terms and conditions pertaining to their working hours and overtime were based on.
the bus drivers claimed that sbs transit had failed to compensate them at the basic hourly rate of pay "for the period between 4 a. m.  to 5 a. m.  on the morning and split shifts" in which the drivers are "engaged to be waiting", and "between 9 a. m.  and 1 p. m.  on the split shift".
sbs transit, they added, had also failed to abide by clause 24(9) of the service agreement by not compensating them the agreed allowance of $18 for work done on the night shift.
the company, they alleged, had also breached section 36(1) of the ea by failing to provide on a roster a weekly rest day.
in addition, the company had violated section 37(3)(b) and section 37(3)(c) of the ea by not paying them "the statutorily prescribed rate" of a sum at the basic rate of pay for two days' worth of work, the bus drivers argued.
by imposing a "built-in overtime" that resulted in the bus drivers working for longer than the statutorily prescribed daily work period of eight hours as well as 44 hours per week, sbs transit had also breached section 38(1) of the ea, according to the bus drivers.
other breaches under the ea allegedly made by sbs transit, as claimed by the bus drivers, include compensating them at the normal hourly rate of pay — instead of the statutorily prescribed rate of an extra day's salary at the basic rate of pay for one day's work, in addition to the gross rate of pay for that day — for work done on public holidays.
the five additional bus drivers bring the total number of bus drivers currently taking legal action against sbs transit to 13.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
just enter your email and we'll take care of the rest:please enter a valid email addressnow available on your smart speaker and wherever you get your podcasts:please enter a valid email address
ever since ms sarah bagharib called the peoples' association (pa) out for using her wedding photographs without her permission in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru, it has generated a firestorm of debate.
this alongside a number of disturbing videos that have surfaced, depicting blatantly racist behaviour has led a number of politicians from both the peoples' action party (pap) front and the opposition fronts to opine.
perhaps bowing to public pressure, the pa has issued an apology of sorts to ms sarah.
i say "an apology of sorts" because while the word "apologise" has been used, it is an apology that is loaded with caveats and reservations.
i accept that neither the pa nor the third-party vendor may have been intentionally racist — this begs the question: can something be racist without a racist intent?this is a nuanced question without a simple answer.
it is however important to acknowledge that when managing people's emotions and feelings, there is never a simple answer and we must not let our desire to be efficient cloud our empathy.
first things first, i think it is probably fair to say that singapore is systemically set up to cater for the majority chinese race.
from advertisements on tv to speaking only chinese in certain restaurants, the subtext is that the minorities must adapt.
one might say this makes logical sense but i would urge you to pause there.
many of our minority fellow citizens are not new immigrants.
they like us (the majority race) were born and bred here, the descendants of immigrants.
for some of our malay brothers and sisters, they have been geographically here way before we were!secondly, while all of these policies that have placed efficiency above all else may not have had a racist intention, it nevertheless could result in racism.
let me give you an example.
on every administration form ranging from local job applications to joining a gym, they ask what race you are.
when the practice started, it may have just been a question of simple efficiency.
listing your race upfront makes it easy to gather data etc.
but the shadow of this approach is that it gives an opportunity for those who may harbour racist intentions to exclude races they do not like.
so, this is an example of non-racist intentions giving birth to racist effects.
by simply focussing on intent, we are missing the forest for the trees.
this isn't a blame game — it is about the acknowledgement that some practices have had racist effects (regardless of intent) and we must do better because the damage is real!the pa has bristled at accusations that it could be racist, preferring to hide behind the term "culturally insensitive".
but calling a spade a spade, isn't cultural insensitivity a part of racism, albeit on a lower scale?
"these are accusations we reject.
while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments".
from the pa's perspective, they are part of a structure that is very much dominated and run in a way that caters systematically to the benefit of the majority chinese race.
while they run events that ostensibly celebrate minority culture, it seems to be done more as a box-ticking exercise.
in other words, it is done on autopilot without much thought.
this is the crux of the issue with the usage of ms sarah's photographs.
it was lazy because the pa has fallen into the trap of stereotyping and generalising minorities.
hari raya equals malay.
malay costume equals hari raya.
it may not be intentional racism, but it still has racist effects.
this is especially so if the lived experience of the minorities in singapore is one where this sorts of casual and careless racism plague their daily existence.
so, is it really right for the pa to dismiss this as an "isolated incident"?
is it also not itself making an accusation that ms sarah is stoking sentiments when it does not want to be accused of being racist?
pot calling kettle black!this is the terminology that can have a gaslighting effect.
many have also dismissed the video of mr dave parkash being chastised by a senior lecturer from ngee ann polytechnic as an "isolated incident".
but is it really?
people all over social media have shared their own experiences of being minorities in singapore and it is clearly not "an isolated incident".
is highlighting incidences of racism, however inadvertently "stoking emotions or sentiments"?
is the pa saying that minorities should just suck it up?while the pa may not have made this exact mistake before, can it categorically say that it has not been guilty of racial stereotype and other incidences of racist effects without intent?for the pa to call it simply an "oversight" is just not good enough.
it isn't an oversight.
it is a lack of regard and that is what they should be apologising for.
it is fine to state that it had not intended to be racist but despite that, the lack of care did result in a racist outcome.
apologise for the outcome and pledge to do better.
end of story.
the pa has claimed that it finds ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting an "odd" one.
i appreciate the pa's point of view if it misguidedly views this as an "isolated incident".
but you see, if you truly listen to the lived experience of minorities, this is not at all an isolated incident.
minorities do not often have a platform because we don't allow them one.
every time something is raised, we silence them with the hammer of "this is an isolated incident".
is it really that surprising that ms sarah is trying to give voice to the many minorities who have not been given a voice?yes it "has gone far beyond the radin mas incident" but it needs to and the pa is a good start.
after all, isn't it called the peoples' association?
if it cannot represent the people, then maybe it is obsolete.
let's not miss a golden opportunity to have a much-needed discussion.
to simply issue a surface apology without deep reflection hoping that the matter will die down is just not good enough because this issue isn't just about the use of photographs without permission.
it is a reflection of our society's ignorance.
if we accept the pa's apology as it stands, we are saying that it is ok for the majority race to remain ignorant.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
shell's company logo is pictured at a gas station in zurich april 8, 2015.  bg group's bonds traded up strongly on wednesday on the back of royal dutch shell's us$70bn offer to buy the uk firm.
reuters/arnd wiegmannsingapore, june 17 (reuters) royal dutch shell (rdsa.
l) has signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding (mou) with singapore state firm jtc corp (jtc.
ul) to explore developing a solar farm on part of a landfill in southern singapore, the companies said on thursday.
if successful, the solar farm will reduce the city-state's carbon emissions and meet its growing clean energy needs, they said in a statement.
the solar farm will be the first large-scale solar project in singapore where a sanitary landfill is also used for clean energy generation, they said, adding that the project is aligned with singapore's target to increase solar deployment to at least 2 global warming potential (gwp) by 2030. the mou is also supported by singapore's national environment agency and energy market authority.
jtc and shell said they will jointly conduct a request for information (rfi) exercise on june 24 to source for "innovative solutions from the market".
the solar farm, likely to be located on part of semakau landfill which is about two kilometres from shell's bukom manufacturing site, is expected take up an area of 60 hectares (148.
3 acres) and have a capacity of at least 72 megawatt peak(mwp), sufficient to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 37,000 tonnes a year.
land-scarce singapore has been finding ways to harness solar energy, which it finds the most promising renewable energy source.
shell said as part of a 10-year plan, it is changing its manufacturing business where bukom is pivoting from a crude-oil, fuels-based product slate towards new, low-carbon value chains.
our standards: the thomson reuters trust principles.
subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
as oil climbs above $70 a barrel for the first time in almost three years, oilfield firms are reporting prices for their services and equipment have bottomed and many are fielding more calls for jobs.
reuters, the news and media division of thomson reuters, is the world's largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day.
reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
the most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
the industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 reuters.
all rights reserved
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
good morning!
here are our top stories to kick-start your thursday, june 17. there were also three unlinked cases confirmed on wednesday.
read more herethose interested may contact providers directly from june 18 for details on how they may get the vaccine.
read more herethe tests will take place on thursday at the void deck of block 80d telok blangah street 31, from 9am to 4pm.
read more herewith just over a week left of the june school holidays, people in singapore are returning to attractions and staycations.
read more herethe council of rulers said the state of emergency should also end after the aug 1 expiry date.
read more herethe summit lasted less than four hours – far less than biden's advisers expected.
read more herepaypal poll shows almost 2 in 3 pick china as top foreign destination for e-commerce buys.
read more hereall four lamp posts near the fitness corner have now been replaced.
read more herethundery showers have been forecast on some days during the second half of the month.
read more herebeat the heat with your own coconut concoction.
read more herejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
hong kong (afp) a spiked drink, a puff of dust, missing memories and an empty bank account.
hong kong's entertainment district wan chai has been battered by a coronavirus-driven collapse in tourism and as times get desperate, several men have seen their night out turn into a nightmare.
it took days for stuart to recall a crucial memory.
but after speaking with another victim, it suddenly came flooding back.
a woman trying to spark a conversation outside a bar, and then a man approaching with a determined look in his eye.
"i thought he was going to punch me but he just blew something in my face," he recalled.
"i laughed.
but that was it.
no memories after that.
"it was a breakthrough for stuart who, like the other victims interviewed for this piece, asked to use a pseudonym.
he had been trying to figure out why post-match drinks with his cricket buddies in wan chai, a popular hangout for white-collar foreign workers, had turned into one big blackout following his encounter outside the bar.
hours were missing alongside hk$80,000 (s$13,800) taken in six separate transactions from nearby atms.
"it was a joint account with my missus and we have a baby on the way," the 36-year-old briton, who moved to hong kong 18 months ago, told agence france-presse (afp) news agency.
"police said maybe i was just drunk, but why would i empty that account?
it wouldn't be worth my life doing that.
"whatsapp groups used by wan chai bar owners and regulars have lit up in recent months with similar stories.
most targets have no memory and awake to find accounts emptied by scammers who have drugged their unwitting victims largely by tampering with their drinks to keep them pliable and obtain their pin.
victims have dubbed the scam "devil's breath" attacks technically the nickname for the powerful anti-nausea drug scopolamine but in this case used more as a catch-all descriptor.
spiked drinks have previously posed a small risk in hong kong, a largely safe city, but the pandemic has exacerbated the issue.
"it's become a huge problem," one bar owner, who declined to be named, told afp, saying multiple regulars had become victims.
"the police are up and down here all night, checking our licences, making sure we abide by pandemic restrictions.
but this seems to be something they just don't, or won't, tackle," he added.
the jump in cases tracks with a general rise in opportunistic crime as hong kong experiences its worst recession in decades.
crime figures from last year showed a 26 per cent increase in robberies, a 237 per cent jump in blackmail and an 89 per cent rise in deception.
the last two categories include phone and online scams, which have filled local media in recent months.
cybercrime was up 55 per cent last year.
in a series of pandemic-themed reports, the global initiative against transnational organised crime detailed how the coronavirus has transformed crime trends.
widespread lockdowns and travel restrictions, for example, have made break-ins and international drug smuggling harder, but the pandemic has been a boon for human trafficking, extortion, counterfeiting and cybercrime.
police and bar owners in hong kong say the vast majority of robberies are carried out by teams of sex workers, an already vulnerable group, sometimes with the help of male accomplices.
"we've all struggled during the pandemic and that includes the girls," another wan chai bar owner said.
"that doesn't excuse the crime, but it helps explain why.
"three people interviewed by afp, including stuart, reported the robberies but said it was a struggle to get officers to treat them as victims.
"when i reported it, the officer sighed and said he already had some 90 case files on his desk," recalled james, a 41-year-old british school teacher who had hk$64,000 lifted from his account.
"i was like, 'well, now you have 91 cases, mate'.
"all three said they struggled to get crucial data from their bank hsbc to give to police.
hsbc did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
police said such crimes had risen during the pandemic and that the force had ramped up operations, including deploying intelligence teams and specialist anti-triad officers.
"i think you can rest assured that we are putting a lot of resources now to fight these kinds of crimes," acting assistant district commander glenn ho siu tung told afp.
he conceded there may be room for improvement on how police treat victims.
"i think we will have to spend some time educating uniformed officers," mr ho said, adding that drinkers need to remain vigilant and not leave out any details when reporting crimes.
victims, meanwhile, say the trauma of what they experienced is worse than the lost money.
"it's the psychological damage it does to you," said stuart.
"you just can't fathom how you could be so compliant".
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
geneva: there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
instead, putin's first summit with the fifth us president of his tenure, joe biden, was about mutual respect and themeeting in genevacould, both of them said, lead to a more predictable, if still tense, relationship.
in contrast to his predecessors, biden made no suggestion he expected to reset the relationship and he has already piled pressure on russia over concerns including alleged election meddling, attacks by cybercriminals against the colonial pipeline and other us infrastructure and over the poisoning and jailing of dissident alexei navalny.
but after earlier remarks that included calling putin "a killer", biden on the eve of the summit described the russian leader as "a worthy adversary" and at a news conference afterward said that they would see where they had common interests.
putin, who at his 2018 summit with donald trump in helsinki was widely seen as dominating the reality television star turned president, called biden "a very experienced politician" who was able to speak in rare detail in the "very constructive" more than three hours of talks.
"biden generally is someone who wants constructive relations.
he doesn't consider putin a friend," said ian bremmer, president of the eurasia group political risk firm.
similar to his view of chinese president xi jinping, biden "doesn't trust them but he does expect russia will act in its interest and the two countries have some interests that overlap and where we should work together," bremmer said.
bremmer said the test of the relationship will come afterward.
"i want to see that in the next three months we have materially fewer ransomware incidents and nothing of the scale that we had against colonial pipeline that comes from russia.
that's absolutely critical.
"groundwork for futureputin made no promises at his news conference on cybercrime, appearing to deny russian involvement, but biden, signalling that he sent a warning, said that putin"knows there are consequences"for russian actions.
the leaders said they would return ambassadors to each other's capitals and that diplomats would work on the release of prisoners.
"i'm not sure how much better it could have gone but it could have gone much worse.
this could have been name-calling, posturing, lecturing, talking past each other," said yuval weber, a russia expert at the wilson center's kennan institute and professor at texas a&m's bush school of government and public service in washington.
unlike in the cold war, when us and soviet leaders would come together to sign accords on major issues such as nuclear weapons, biden and putin never expected breakthroughs in geneva, weber said.
"what they were looking for was whether they can get along well enough in person to keep the conversation going," weber said.
weber said that putin was "notoriously a very thin-skinned person" who was likely unsettled by biden's initial comments on him.
by calling putin a "worthy adversary" and speaking of russia as a powerful nation, biden is following a strategy of "saying things that putin can then latch onto," weber said.
us partisan divideformer president barack obama infuriated putin by calling russia, which backs separatists in ukraine, a "regional power" acting "not out of strength but weakness".
but obama, like previous presidents, took office hoping to restore relations with russia.
george w.  bush famously said after meeting putin in 2001 that he could "get a sense of his soul.
"trump broke the mould by voicing admiration for putin.
after his 2018 summit in helsinki, putin drew criticism even within his own republican party when he appeared to take at face value putin's denial of election interference even as putin also openly said he wanted trump to be president.
republicans quickly attacked biden over the geneva summit, saying he should have been more confrontational.
"summits are about delivering results," said jim risch, the top republican on the senate foreign relations committee.
"to learn there was no tangible progress made with russia on any issue is both unfortunate and disappointing.
"but senator bob menendez, the democrat who heads the committee, praised biden for "bluntly speaking truth" to putin.
"this was a necessary reality check for putin and a welcome departure from the past four years of trump's coddling of the kremlin," menendez said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
seoul: south korean authorities are failing to properly tackle the country's widespread digital sex crimes against women, which have a devastating impact on victims, a human rights watch (hrw) report said on wednesday (jun 16).
south korea is the world's 12th largest economy and a leading technological power, but remains a male-dominated society with a poor record on women's rights.
digital sex crimes, or the sharing of intimate pictures or video without permission, are a massive problem in the country, where "molka" or spycam videos secretly filmed in public places are common, as is "revenge porn" private sex videos filmed or shared non-consensually by disgruntled exes.
south korean officials "in the criminal legal system most of whom are men often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes", said hrw's heather barr, the report author.
in 2019, almost 45 per cent of sexual digital crime cases were dropped by the country's prosecution, compared with 19 per cent of robbery cases and 27.
7 per cent of homicides, the report said.
even when there were convictions, it found almost 80 per cent of perpetrators received just "a suspended sentence, a fine, or a combination of the two" last year.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared .
.
.
they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," barr said.
spycams have become so prevalent that female police officers now regularly inspect public toilets, with women telling hrw they avoided using the amenities altogether.
one woman who spoke to barr was given a clock by a male employer, which she put in her bedroom only later finding out the device had been streaming footage to him for over a month.
victims often feel deep shame and are socially ostracised, and an "alarming number" told hrw they had contemplated suicide.
the report comes as an anti-feminist backlash grows in south korea, with companies accused of endorsing "radical feminism" being boycotted by some men.
barr said "widely accepted harmful views" about women and girls were the root cause of the phenomenon.
the government has "not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
geneva (reuters) us president joe biden told russian president vladimir putin on wednesday (june 16) that certain critical infrastructure should be "off-limits" to cyberattacks, but analysts said his efforts were unlikely to be more successful than previous attempts to carve out safe zones online.
biden wasn't explicit about which areas he wanted out of bounds, but spoke of 16 kinds of infrastructure – an apparent reference to the 16 sectors designated as critical by the us homeland security department, including telecommunications, healthcare, food and energy.
"we agreed to task experts in both our countries to work on specific understandings about what is off-limits," biden said.
"we'll find out whether we have a cybersecurity arrangement that begins to bring some order.
"a senior administration official said that the proposal was focused on "destructive" hacks, as opposed to the conventional digital espionage operations carried out by intelligence agencies worldwide.
putin's response to the idea wasn't immediately clear.
in a separate press conference, he said the two leaders had agreed to "begin consultations" on cybersecurity issues but didn't directly refer to biden's proposal.
the threat of cyberattacks aimed at critical infrastructure, a staple of disaster movies where renegade hackers trigger blackouts and mayhem, have long worried experts.
the united states had its first serious taste of what that might mean last month, when ransom-seeking cybercriminals briefly triggered the closure of a major us pipeline network, interrupting gasoline deliveries and triggering panic-buying up and down the east coast.
earlier cyberattacks aimed at the ukrainian power grid and a saudi petrochemical plant have also drawn concern.
in all those cases, the hackers involved are accused by the united states of either working directly for the russian government or from russian territory.
russian officials have repeatedly denied carrying out or tolerating cyberattacks, and putin on wednesday made no concessions on the issue.
"we need to throw out all kinds of insinuations, sit down at the expert level and start working in the interests of the united states and russia," putin told reporters.
he then made an insinuation of his own, saying that russian officials had tracked malicious digital activity coming from the united states.
"we certainly see where the attacks are coming from.
we see that this work is coordinated from us cyberspace," putin said.
experts were sceptical that biden's proposal would be taken seriously by putin.
"there's no indication at all that he actually went along with it," said keir giles, a russia expert with the london-based chatham house think tank.
giles said that grappling with the cyber threat emerging from russia would require "an outbreak of honesty" on the kremlin's side.
"there's no indication – at least from putin's public comments so far – that that outbreak has begun," giles said.
the fate of a similar agreement between former us president barack obama and chinese leader xi jinping is not encouraging, said stefan soesanto, a researcher at the centre for security studies at the swiss federal institute of technology in zurich.
the 2015 agreement theoretically banned the theft of intellectual property for commercial gain, but many cyber experts that track chinese hacking say beijing eventually reneged on the deal.
"will biden fare better than obama/xi?
i don't think it will," soesanto said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singapore's labour market continued its recovery in the first quarter, with total employment growing for the first time since the start of the covid-19 pandemic.
a report by the ministry of manpower (mom) on thursday (june 17) showed that the total employment, excluding foreign domestic workers, rose by 12,200 in the first three months of the year, after four consecutive quarters of decline.
this far surpassed the preliminary estimate of 4,800 released in april.
resident hires continued to rise, outpacing the decline in non-resident employment, which is partly due to restrictions on the inflow of foreign workers.
this increase was driven by the broad hiring of residents in the service sectors, such as information and communications, food and beverage, health and social services, and administrative and support services.
more retrenched residents here have also found jobs within six months, while job vacancies have risen to nearly match the unemployed population, according to the report.
but the labour market is still not fully back to its pre-pandemic state, said mom.
moreover, uncertainties in the economy and the recent tightened measures during phase two (heightened alert) are expected to weigh on the pace of labour market recovery in the second quarter.
manpower minister tan see leng said singapore's path to recovery "will not be a straight road", and will entail some twists and potential roadblocks.
"recovery is also expected to be more uneven across sectors than earlier expected," said dr tan, speaking to the media after visiting the procter & gamble singapore innovation centre at biopolis on wednesday (june 16).
unemployment rates continued to ease, after peaking in september last year at 3.
5 per cent for the overall workforce, 4.
9 per cent for citizens and 4.
8 per cent for residents.
in march, this dropped to 2.
9 per cent overall, 4.
2 per cent for citizens and 4 per cent for residents.
the rates are still higher than pre-pandemic unemployment levels.
retrenchments, however, fell for the second consecutive quarter to pre-pandemic levels, said mom.
the re-entry rate of retrenched residents into employment also rose for two consecutive quarters, to 66.
2 per cent.
as business activities picked up, the number of workers placed on shorter work weeks or temporary layoffs also declined, from 8,710 in the fourth quarter of last year to 4,020 in the first quarter of this year.
meanwhile, the number of job vacancies rose to 68,400 in march, exceeding the last high of 65,500 in march 2015. the ratio of job vacancies to unemployed persons also improved, to 0.
96 or nearly one job vacancy for every unemployed person in march.
this is an increase from a ratio of 0.
75 in december last year.
associate professor lawrence loh from the national university of singapore business school said the first quarter performance is expected, as it follows on the heels of the recovering covid-19 situation in the latter part of last year.
"however, it is too early to say that there is a turnaround in the employment trend," he stressed, adding that singapore is not out of the woods just yet.
"employment normally lags economic growth – given the restricted situation in the second quarter now, the decline in economic activity is likely to affect the job market in the next quarter and beyond.
"foreign employment growth is likely to continue its decline, given ongoing border restrictions.
this could lead to labour shortages in sectors like construction.
to help construction companies cope with the manpower crunch, the government has introduced a temporary scheme that would make it easier to recruit workers from china, where the coronavirus situation is more stable and fewer restrictions are in force.
chinese work permit holders usually obtain their skills certification from overseas training centres in china, but they will now be allowed to get certified in singapore instead.
maybank kim eng senior economist chua hak bin said the labour market recovery is k-shaped, with a stark divergence between resident and non-resident employment.
"the divergent and uneven labour market recovery will likely continue in the second quarter, given even stricter border and quarantine controls under the heightened measures," he added.
"wage pressures may surface earlier than expected as the resident labour market tightens, even though employment is still far below pre-pandemic levels.
the government has also put in place various schemes for employers to access a wider pool of talent, from career conversion programmes to the jobs growth incentive that encourages employers to bring forward the hiring of local workers through wage subsidies.
dr tan said businesses here have to innovate, from digitalisation to developing niche capabilities.
"as businesses transform, the workforce must be reskilled and upskilled to keep pace with the changing needs," he added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: bytedance founder zhang yiming told staff on thursday (jun 17) that he was already shifting away from chief executive's daily responsibilities and his work pace was less intense, according to two people who attended the meeting.
in may, zhang unexpectedly announced thathe will step down as ceoof the tiktok owner amid chinese regulators' tightened scrutiny of the country's biggest technology firms.
he said at the time he would move to a "key strategy" role and complete the transition work with his successor liang rubo by the end of this year.
zhang told staff he is currently studying other companies' organisational structures and managing styles, and doing research on the education industry.
zhang remains chairman of bytedance and has the absolute voting power at the company.
the company told staff at the same meeting that its total revenue more than doubled in 2020 to us$34.
3 billion and its net loss widened to us$45 billion, according to a memo seen by reuters.
the wider loss was partly attributable to accounting norms for share-based compensation of employees, a person familiar with the matter said.
reuters has reported that bytedance, one of the world's biggest private tech companies with an estimated value of about us$300 billion in recent trades, had a revenue goal of around us$30 billion for 2020. bytedance posted an operating loss of us$2 billion and a gross profit of us$19 billion, representing 93 per cent growth year-over-year, the company told employees in the staff meeting, upon which the memo was based.
beijing-based bytedance declined to comment on its financials or zhang's remarks.
it had 1.
9 billion global monthly users in december 2020 for all its apps including tiktok, its chinese version douyin and news aggregator jinri toutiao.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
hong kong (reuters, bloomberg) five hundred hong kong police officers sifted through reporters' computers and notebooks at pro-democracy tabloid apple daily on thursday (june 17), the first case in which authorities have cited media articles as potentially violating the national security law.
around dawn, police arrested five executives of the newspaper, and officers were later seen sitting at computers in the newsroom after entering with a warrant to seize journalistic materials, including from reporters' phones and laptops.
the raid is the latest blow to media tycoon jimmy lai, the tabloid's owner and a staunch beijing critic, whose assets have been seized under the security law and who is serving prison sentences for taking part in illegal assemblies.
in comments raising further alarm over media freedoms in hong kong, security secretary john lee described the newsroom as a "crime scene" and said the operation was aimed at those who use reporting as a "tool to endanger" national security.
he did not elaborate on the dozens of articles police said they were taking aim, at but said the five were arrested for a conspiracy to make "use of journalistic work" to incite foreign forces to impose sanctions on hong kong and china.
"normal journalists are different from these people.
don't collude with them," he told reporters.
"do your journalistic work as freely as you like in accordance with the law, provided you do not conspire or have any intention to break .
.
.
the national security law. "
senior superintendent li kwai-wah said the tabloid published dozens of reports dating back to 2019 that "incited foreign countries to impose sanctions", without saying when the most recent articles in question were.
the legislation is not retrospective but prosecutors can use actions from before its implementation as evidence.
police have also frozen hk$18 million (s$3.
1 million) of assets owned by three companies linked to apple daily and that the raid was not targeted at the media industry as a whole.
china's hong kong liaison office said it firmly supported what it described as "just action" by the police.
in a letter to its readers, apple daily said that it was the victim of a "targeted attack by the regime," but that its staff "will continue to stick to their posts loyally and fight to the end.
"police seized 38 computers used by its reporters, apple daily said.
it was the second time police have raided the apple daily headquarters; 200 officers went in last year to arrest lai on suspicion of colluding with foreign forces.
lai has been in detention since december, denied bail under the security law and serving several sentences for taking part in some unauthorised rallies, including during the global financial hub's mass pro-democracy protests in 2019.  the security law was beijing's first major move to set china's most restive city on an authoritarian path.
it punishes anything beijing deems as subversion, secessionism, terrorism and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in prison.
national security police said in a statement that five directors of a company had been arrested on suspicion of collusion with a foreign country or with external elements.
hong kong police do not name arrestees.
apple daily said editor-in-chief ryan law, chief executive officer cheung kim-hung, chief operating officer chow tat-kuen, deputy chief editor chan puiman and chief executive editor cheung chi-wai had all been arrested in morning raids.
"this is a blatant attack on the editorial side of apple daily," mr mark simon, an adviser to lai who is outside hong kong, told reuters.
"they're arresting the top editorial folks.
"pictures published by apple daily showed police sitting at reporters' desks and using their computers.
a person streaming a live feed for apple daily's facebook page said the building was cordoned off and reporters were prevented from accessing certain floors or getting their equipment or notebooks.
chief editor law was seen walking in handcuffs, flanked by police officers.
the apple daily paper's general news desk told reporters in a text message seen by reuters to carry on with their assignments outside the building for the time being.
"this fits into the pattern over the past year of the government using the national security law to target its top critics," said mr tom kellogg, the executive director of the georgetown centre for asian law.
police officers unload outside the headquarters of the apple daily newspaper and its publisher next digital ltd.  in hong kong, on june 17, 2021.  photo: bloomberg
"this is a serious blow to press freedom in hong kong, and a direct attack on the journalistic work of apple daily," he added.
"whereas prior attacks on apple have focused on jimmy lai's own advocacy, these arrests are – for the first time – focused on apple daily's journalistic output.
"mr steven butler, committee to protect journalists' asia programme coordinator said the arrests "under hong kong's orwellian national security law destroy any remaining fiction that hong kong supports freedom of the press.
""china, which controls hong kong, may be able to eliminate the paper, which it sees as an annoying critic, but only at a steep price to be paid by the people of hong kong, who had enjoyed decades of free access to information," he added.
the move is the latest blow to apple daily after authorities last month directed jailed tycoon lai's shares in next digital, publisher of the newspaper, to be frozen.
trading in the company's stock on the hong kong bourse was suspended on thursday.
asked how long he thinks the newspaper can survive, mr simon said: "it's not up to us.
it's up to them.
there's 100 police officers in our newsroom.
they decide, not us.
"the arrests on thursday are likely to reignite ongoing concerns about whether hong kong still retains the constitutionally-guaranteed freedom of speech that has led numerous international news organisations to establish regional headquarters in the finance hub.
"hong kong has been left with little free speech under the national security law, which is really aimed at silencing all dissent," said associate professor victoria hui from the university of notre dame.
"beijing has reined in hong kong and will continue to take whatever it takes to silence any dissenting voices. "
a police vechie is seen outside the headquarters of apple daily and next media in hong kong, on june 17, 2021.  photo: reuters
in an e-mail sent to readers on wednesday, mr law, the now-arrested apple daily editor, wrote that hong kong media were operating under "more and more laws restricting freedom of the press".
but he vowed the newspaper would carry on reporting.
"is the national security law the biggest crisis of apple daily?"
he asked, noting that identifying the government's "red lines" were becoming increasingly important.
"no matter how great the pressure is, we will definitely be able to stand up," he added.
"at the end of the tunnel, there must be light.
"apple daily is an unapologetic tabloid that mixes pro-democracy discourse with celebrity gossip and investigations of those in power and is popular in hong kong.
in may, reuters reported that hong kong's security chief sent letters to lai and branches of hsbc and citibank threatening up to seven years in jail for any dealings with the billionaire's accounts in the city.
lai's assets were also frozen under the same law.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
paris (reuters) the delta variant of the covid-19 virus, first found in india which experts estimate to be more infectious than other variants currently represents 2 per cent to 4 per cent of confirmed covid-19 cases in france, said french health minister olivier veran on tuesday (june 15).
mr veran said this meant france was registering between 50 and 150 cases a day of the covid-19 delta variant, which highlighted the importance of sanitary protocol measures and vaccinations to keep the virus at bay.
"we are in the process of crushing the virus and crushing the pandemic, and we must in no way let the variant get the upper hand so that it leads to another wave of the pandemic," mr veran told reporters at a paris vaccination centre.
on monday, british prime minister boris johnson delayed his plans to lift most remaining covid-19 restrictions by a month, citing the dangers posted by the covid-19 delta variant.
france's covid-19 numbers have steadily gone down over the last two months after the country eased its third national lockdown.
france has more than 110,400 covid-19 deaths, the ninth-highest covid-19 death toll in the world.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the apple daily's chief-editor and four other executives were arrested by the hong kong police.
hong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
the paper and its jailed owner jimmy lai have long been a thorn in beijing's side with unapologetic support for the financial hub's pro-democracy movement and scathing criticism of china's authoritarian leaders.
more than 500 officers were involved in the dawn operation which police said was sparked by articles apple daily had published "appealing for sanctions" against hong kong and china's leaders.
the five executives were arrested "for collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security".
"those arrested are all directors of apple daily so they are very familiar with the company's daily operations," senior superintendent steve li told reporters.
"they have overall responsibility for the content, style and principles of news reporting.
"police said hk$18 million (us$2.
3m) in apple daily assets had also been frozen under the security law, the first time a seizure order has been made directly against a hong kong media company, rather than an individual.
on facebook, apple daily broadcast live footage and shared photos of the raid.
officers could be seen cordoning off the building, searching the newsroom and looking through journalists' computer consoles.
"they arrived around 7 am this morning, our building is besieged," an unnamed reporter said in the broadcast.
"police are restricting us from using quite a lot of our equipment.
but we can still keep this live camera on and our website will keep updating," the voice added.
sweeping security lawmost of the executives were arrested at home but later taken to the newspaper.
chief editor ryan law and ceo cheung kim-hung were both led into the building with their hands fastened behind their backs.
stand news, a pro-democracy online media outlet, published pictures showing police had smashed down the house door of chan pui-man -- law's deputy.
hong kong's stock exchange said trading in shares of next digital -- the publisher of the newspaper -- had been halted.
the security law introduced last june is the speartip of a sweeping crackdown on beijing's critics in hong kong since 2019's huge democracy protests.
it has criminalised much dissent, given china jurisdiction over some cases, allowed mainland security agents to operate openly in hong kong and awarded authorities a suite of powerful new investigation powers.
those convicted of a national security crime face up to life in prison and the majority are denied bail after arrest.
thursday's raid was the second on apple daily in less than a year.
the tabloid's billionaire owner lai, 73, was charged with collusion after hundreds of officers searched the paper's newsroom last august.
he is currently serving multiple jail sentences for attending various protests.
apple daily has staunchly backed hong kong's pro-democracy cause, including the huge and often violent demonstrations that swept the city in 2019. beijing has made no secret of its desire to see the paper's voice tamed, with state media routinely describing lai as a "traitor" and a "black hand" and senior communist party officials already declaring him guilty.
asset seizures last month, police used the national security law to freeze lai's bank accounts and his majority shares in next digital.
it was the first time hong kong authorities used the law to seize shares of a listed company's majority shareholder.
until thursday's raid, authorities had left the company's assets alone.
it is unclear whether apple daily will now be able to pay its staff.
more than 100 people have been arrested under the security law, many of them the city's best-known democracy activists.
others have fled overseas.
china says the law was needed to return stability to the international financial hub.
critics, including many western nations, say it has been the final nail in the coffin for the "one country, two systems" promise that hong kong could maintain certain liberties after its 1997 handover to china by the british.
a shadow of fear has hung over the newsroom since lai's arrest.
speaking with afp last month, chief editor law admitted that the paper was in "crisis" since the jailing of its owner but said his reporters were determined to press on with publishing.
at a recent meeting, staff asked law what they should do if the police came back to arrest him.
"broadcast it live," he said.
(except for the headline, this story has not been edited by ndtv staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
)track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
human rights watch found sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017last modified on thu 17 jun 2021 00.
09 edtsouth korea's epidemic of online sexual abuse has left survivors traumatised for life, and is adversely affecting all women and girls in the country, according to a new report.
molka – the use of hidden cameras to film or share explicit images of women without their consent – is forcing victims to contemplate suicide or to consider quitting their jobs or leaving the country, human rights watch (hrw) said in the report, my life is not your porn: digital sex crimes in south korea.
the trauma is worsened by encounters with unsympathetic police and courts, the us-based organisation said, and called on the government to introduce harsher penalties and educate men and boys about the dangers of consuming abusive images online.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared, in south korea that they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," heather barr, hrw's interim director of women' rights, said on wednesday.
barr, who authored the report, added: "women and girls told us they avoided using public toilets and felt anxious about hidden cameras in public and even in their homes.
an alarming number of survivors of digital sex crimes said they had considered suicide.
"officials in the legal justice system – most of whom are men – often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes.
"the report, based on 38 interviews and an online survey involving hundreds of women, said sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017, according to data from the korean institute of criminology.
in 2008, fewer than 4% of prosecutions involved molka, but that had risen to 20% – almost 7,000 cases – by 2017.
"digital sex crimes are an urgent crisis for south korean women and girl," said lina yoon, a senior researcher in hrw's asia division.
the crime is having a "devastating impact" on women, yoon added.
"police take the issue lightly because there is no physical contact involved.
they don't realise how terrifying it can be. "
the sharing of covert photos and video online means the crime "never ends for the survivors," she said.
"it stays with them throughout their lives.
"oh soo-jin* was a 20-year-old student when she agreed to pose nude for a part-time modelling job.
despite reassurances in her contract that the photographs would remain private, more than 700 images of her appeared on a website after she quit because her boss had demanded more sexually explicit images.
more photographs of oh appeared – even after she sought help from the police – leading her to contemplate suicide.
"i'm quite afraid for my future," she said.
"[the images] are going to always be on someone's computer, and i don't know when this will stop.
i thought that if this can't stop, then i want to stop my life.
"barr said most women who reported digital sex crimes had "terrible experiences" with the police, with some saying they had been mocked or told they would never find a marriage partner.
while upskirting and other non-consensual sexual imagery is now a global problem, it has taken hold quickly in south korea, where perpetrators take advantage of the near-ubiquitous use of mobile devices and the world's fastest internet speeds.
the president, moon jae-in, called for police to investigate the growing number of digital sex crimes after mass demonstrations in seoul gained global attention in 2018. in 2020, however, perpetrators receive a fine or a suspended sentence, or both, in 79% of cases.
"it is not at all proportionate to the harm that has been done," barr said.
a year earlier, prosecutors dropped 43.
5% of digital sex crime cases compared to 27.
7% of homicide cases and 19% of robbery cases, although the sex crime cases that were prosecuted usually ended in a conviction, the report said.
hrw said the government needed to introduce tougher penalties for offenders, increase the number of female police officers, prosecutors, and judges, and address south korea's poor record on gender inequality.
* name has been changed international helplines can be found at www.
befrienders.
org.
in the uk and ireland, samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.
org or jo@samaritans.
ie.
in the us, the national suicide prevention lifeline is at 800-273-8255 and online chat is also available.
you can also text home to 741741 to connect with a crisis text line counselor.
in australia, the crisis support service lifeline is 13 11 14.
two centuries-old shipwrecks packed with ceramics and other artefacts have been found off singapore in a rare discovery that will shed light on the city-state's maritime heritage, archaeologists said wednesday.
the prosperous island nation has long been a key trading hub on global shipping routes connecting the indian ocean and the south china sea.
the wrecks were found off pedra branca, a rocky outcrop east of singapore, according to the national heritage board and think tank the iseas-yusof ishak institute, which worked together on the project.
the first wreck, discovered after divers accidentally came across ceramic plates in 2015, was carrying chinese ceramics that possibly date back to the 14th century, when singapore was known as temasek.
some of the items were similar to artefacts found in archaeological digs on land, which showed that singapore was a trading hub well before the arrival of british colonisers in 1819. undersea excavations on the first wreck led to the discovery of the second, which is likely to be the shah munchah, a merchant vessel built in india that sank in 1796 while sailing from china to india.
items recovered from the second wreck ranged from chinese ceramics to glass and agate objects, as well anchors and cannons, the heritage board and think tank said.
the survey and recovery of artefacts from the two wrecks was completed this year.
such cannons were typically mounted on merchant ships used by the east india company --- the trading behemoth through which the british empire expanded in asia -- in the 18th and 19th centuries, they added.
the vessel discovered in 2015 was the first ancient shipwreck to be found in singapore's waters.
it was carrying "more yuan dynasty blue-and-white porcelain than any other documented shipwreck in the world," said michael flecker, a visiting fellow at the iseas-yusof ishak institute's archaeology unit.
"many of the pieces are rare, and one is believed to be unique.
"the yuan dynasty existed in what is now china in the 13th and 14th centuries.
much of the chinese cargo in the second wreck was destined for eventual shipping to britain, said flecker.
mba/sr/qanburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
kuala lumpur: a malaysian court will rule wednesday (jun 16) on a challenge by the family of a french-irish teenager over an inquest verdict that she died by misadventure after vanishing in the jungle.
the body of nora quoirin, a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and are seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan is expected to hand down his ruling at 5pm at the high court in seremban, outside kuala lumpur, via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
"the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents," she said.
malaysian police have stuck to their version of events that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
keep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storieshong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
the paper and its jailed owner jimmy lai have long been a thorn in beijing's side with unapologetic support for the financial hub's pro-democracy movement and scathing criticism of china's authoritarian leaders.
more than 500 officers conducted a dawn operation which authorities said was sparked by articles apple daily had published "appealing for sanctions" against hong kong and china's leaders.
it is the first time the content of media reporting has sparked arrests under the city's new national security law.
in a message to readers, apple daily warned that hong kong's press freedoms were "hanging by a thread" but the paper vowed to "stand tall".
its union described the operation as a "wanton violation of press freedom" that "displayed how much police power has inflated under the national security law".
police said the five executives were arrested for collusion with a foreign country or external elements "to endanger national security".
"they have overall responsibility for the content, style and principles of news reporting," senior superintendent steve li told reporters.
authorities also seized hk$18 million (us$2.
3 million) in apple daily assets, the first time a national security law seizure order has been made directly against a hong kong media company, rather than an individual.
'ominous' -hong kong is historically a major international media hub but its press freedom ranking has slipped dramatically in recent years.
secretary for security john lee declined to say which articles breached the security law or whether those who shared the articles online, bought apple daily or its shares, might be at risk.
"everyone must decide for themselves," he told reporters.
"our actions are not targeting press freedom or journalistic work," he added.
"we target conspiracies that threaten national security.
we target perpetrators who would use journalistic work as a tool to engage in acts that endanger national security.
"sharron fast, a lecturer at the university of hong kong's journalism school, described lee's comments as "ominous and incorrect".
"it is precisely the role of a journalist in a free society to report on political views, even those that might be unwelcome," she told afp.
apple daily broadcast live footage of the raid showing officers searching the newsroom and looking through journalists' computers.
the paper said computer terminals, hard drives and reporter notepads were among items carted away.
among the arrested executives were chief editor ryan law and ceo cheung kim-hung who were both led into the building in handcuffs.
hong kong's stock exchange said trading in shares of next digital -- the publisher of the newspaper -- had been halted.
crackdown -the security law is the speartip of a sweeping crackdown on beijing's critics in hong kong since 2019's huge democracy protests.
it has criminalised much dissent, given china jurisdiction over some cases and awarded authorities a suite of powerful new investigation powers.
those convicted face up to life in prison and the majority are denied bail after arrest.
thursday's raid was the second on apple daily in less than a year.
the tabloid's billionaire owner lai, 73, was charged with collusion after hundreds of officers searched the paper's newsroom last august.
he is currently serving multiple jail sentences for attending various protests.
beijing has made no secret of its desire to see the paper's voice tamed, with state media routinely describing lai as a "traitor" and a "black hand".
last month, police used the national security law to freeze lai's bank accounts and his majority shares in next digital.
'try to publish' -until thursday's raid, authorities had left the company's assets alone.
it is unclear whether apple daily will now be able to pay its staff.
"we will try all our best to publish newspapers for tomorrow," executive chief editor lam man-chung, who was not among those arrested, told afp.
china says the security law was needed to return stability to the international financial hub.
critics, including many western nations, say it has been the final nail in the coffin for the "one country, two systems" promise that hong kong could maintain certain liberties after its 1997 handover to china by the british.
more than 100 people have been arrested under the law, many of them the city's best-known democracy activists.
others have fled overseas.
speaking with afp last month, chief editor law admitted the paper was in "crisis" since lai's jailing but said his reporters were determined to press on with publishing.
asked by staff what they should do if the police came to arrest him, he replied: "broadcast it live.
"su/jta/axnburner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
china's output of integrated circuits (ic) in may reached an all-time, single-month high as the country pulled out all stops to produce chips amid a severe global shortage of semiconductors, according to data released by the central government on wednesday.
china's ic output in may surged 37.
6 per cent from a year ago to 29.
9 billion units, the national bureau of statistics data showed.
separately, the nation's automobile output for last month slid by 5 per cent year on year, according to the buhong kong police rounded up 79 people in a series of raids that shut down two underground casinos and an unlicensed pub in the span of two hours on tuesday night.
in one raid on a ko shing street flat in sai ying pun, officers found a baccarat table and two large televisions used to play online card games, seizing hk$215,000 (us$27,697) in cash, hk$410,000 in chips and five account books.
sixteen men and six women, aged 31 to 74, were inside the premises when officers from the western special duif you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
browsing property ads?
from exaggerated headlines like "over 90% units sold!"
to too-good-to-be-true prices under market value, here are 6 things to look out for when shopping for a new home.
if you've got a citibank credit card, you're in luck.
here are the deals you can enjoy as a citibank credit cardmember (on top of the credit card's own perks).
a well-known global bank, citibank offers some of the best credit cards in singapore.
it [.
.
. ]
the post citibank credit card promotions and deals: june 2021 appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
beijing said on wednesday it did not fear the relationship between the united states and the european union after the two sides announced they would set up a body to write economic rules and take other steps to face rising competition from china.
a statement by the chinese diplomatic mission at the eu said china was standing up and was not afraid of threats, saying the eu-us summit had gone far beyond the "norm of developing bilateral relations .
.
.
it is filled with an outdated cold war mentalitychinese billionaire jack ma of alibaba is keeping a low profile and has taken up painting as a hobby, while the tech giant he co-founded has put last year's regulatory troubles behind it, according to his close business partner joseph tsai.
in a wide-ranging interview with american media, tsai said ma was living a "normal life", and also weighed in on hong kong's national security law and global prospects for post-pandemic economic recovery.
"he is lying low right now," tsai, executive vice-chaithe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi went on trial for sedition in a junta court tuesday, more than four months after her government was ousted in a coup that has thrown her country into turmoil.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
australia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
italy became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
the un aviation agency said wednesday it will release an interim report next week on the diversion of a ryanair flight by belarus that caused a global outcry.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nethe european union and united states launched a trade and technology council that seeks to "write the rules of the road" on the global economy, in the face of growing competition from china.
it was the latest salvo against beijing on us president joe biden's whistle-stop european tour, which had seen him succeed in rallying support among the g7, nato and now eu for a much-vaunted transatlantic coalition to face down china's rising influence.
a joint eu-us statement said the council would focus othe strategic partnership sees emerge working with mediacorp's bloomr.
sg network to "develop the knowledge and skills of up-and-coming" content creators in esports.
bangkok  thailand will reopen to visitors within 120 days after more than a year of coronavirus travel curbs, a calculated risk needed to revive its troubled economy, prime minister prayuth chan-ocha said on wednesday (june 16).
the country was ahead of target in securing 105.
5 million doses of coronavirus vaccine for this year, and would seek more supplies next year, prayuth said in a nationally televised speech.
prayuth added that the country plans to administer an average of 10 million shots of coronavirus vaccine each month from july onwards and aims to reopen the tourism-reliant country to fully vaccinated travelers, local and foreign, without a quarantine requirement.
"re-opening the country is one of the important ways to start reducing the enormous suffering of people who have lost their ability to earn an income," he said.
"when we take into consideration the economic needs of people, the time has now come for us to take that calculated risk.
he said he aimed to declare thailand fully open within 120 days and for tourism centres that are ready, "to do so even faster".
[[nid:531470]]he said the risk was necessary and the country could not afford to wait to complete all of its vaccinations and for the spread of the virus to halt.
strict entry requirements and quarantine measures helped keep thailand's coronavirus outbreaks under control until recent months, but the curbs saw arrival numbers plummet to a fraction of its nearly 40 million visitors in 2019. it will start with a pilot reopening from july 1 on its most popular island, phuket, which has been vaccinating most of its local population.
thailand lost about $50 billion (s$66.
8 billion) in tourism revenue last year an 82 per cent plunge.
prayuth urged the public to get vaccinated as fast as possible and said the reopening target could only be met if the vaccines are delivered according to the committed schedules.
market anticipation for the wednesday meeting of the federal reserve's policy-making open market committee was higher than usual, given that it took place shortly after the release of data showing that inflation continues to surge.
consumer prices were up 5 percent in may relative to may 2020, the fastest rate of increase since august 2008.  even leaving out volatile food and energy prices, "core" inflation was up 3.
8 percent, which was the fastest increase for that indicator since june 1992.  long dormant as a risk factor in the u. s.  and global economies, inflation now is being taken more seriously than at any time in more than 40 years.
the question on everyone's mind was: would the fed react to the new numbers by adjusting the easy-money stance it adopted in response to the pandemic-induced economic collapse of a year ago?
the central bank, and its chair, jerome h.  powell, answered "no," albeit with a caveat.
though the fed raised its own forecast of 2021 annual inflation a full percentage point over its march estimate, to 3.
4 percent, there will be no "taper" of its $120 billion per month bond-buying program, until the fed sees what mr.  powell called "substantial further progress" toward full employment and its inflation goal, which is a 2 percent annual average over time.
and there will be no short-term increase in the fed's key interest rate, which is currently set at zero.
that's where the caveat came in: the fed's board published non-binding forecasts after its march meeting that point to the need for at least one rate increase in 2023, as opposed to 2024. hypothetical as they still are, these earlier rate hikes — which generally make stocks less attractive to investors — would come too soon for wall street's taste, and the market fell after the fed meeting.
yet they would come too late for skeptics of the fed's posture, who note that it is getting hard to square with the central bank's own acknowledgement that inflation is running faster than it thought just three months ago.
mohamed a.  el-erian, of cambridge university, tweeted that a "possible policy mistake" by the fed ranks with vaccine-resistant covid virus variants as a risk to the global economy.
the fed is sticking to its view that much inflationary pressure comes from "transitory" effects related to the post-pandemic reopening, such as a surge of consumer and government spending while many sectors of the economy are still struggling to ramp up production.
mr.  powell said he sees "no sign" that long-term inflation expectations are getting out of hand.
and he's got data to back him up, such as a recent moderation in lumber prices and persistently low interest rates on 10-year treasury notes.
mr.  powell is obviously not indifferent to the threat of uncontrolled inflation, a fact he usefully reiterated wednesday.
equally clearly, he believes that the bigger risks to prosperity lie in trying to cool the economy — which is what inflation-fighting requires — while job creation and wage increases are still heating up.
if and when the chair's assessment proves valid, the american people will owe him a debt of gratitude.
if not — he'll own that, too.
read more:lawrence h.  summers: the inflation risk is realhenry olsen: the fed doesn't want you to worry about inflation.
you should.
catherine rampell: don't freak out about inflation yetpaul waldman: how inflation fears are complicating biden's political futuregeorge f.  will: the fed has an irresistible equity itchthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
two historical shipwrecks have been excavated from singapore's waters.
ceramic pieces dating back to the 14th century have been salvaged.
here are details of their discovery and their significance to the island city's maritime heritage.
a singapore-registered barge carrying two bulk loader cranes encountered bad weather while on its way to kuantan and ran aground at pedra branca on dec 30, 2014. the two cranes were at risk of toppling onto pedra branca's famous horsburgh lighthouse, which was built in 1851. to prevent this from happening, dynamite was attached to the two cranes, and they were blown up while two boats pulled them away from the lighthouse, scattering metal into the sea.
commercial divers were hired to clear the area of these scraps, said dr michael flecker, a visiting fellow at the iseas yusof ishak institute's archaeology unitit was while diving to retrieve the scraps in 2015 that mr ramdzan salim, a project manager, and mr ahmad qamarulhazman, a diver, stumbled across stacks of old ceramic plates.
dr michael flecker preparing for a dive.
st photo: gin tay
at around the same time, a 10-week-long archaeological dig was being carried out at a site in empress place.
the divers, while following media coverage of the findings, realised that some plates retrieved near pedra branca looked very similar to artefacts retrieved in empress place, and decided to hand over the plates to the institute for further research and safekeeping.
the rest is history.
upon the institute's confirmation that the plates were high quality celadon ceramics dated to the 14th century, the national heritage board partnered the institute to conduct a survey at the pedra branca site, discovering a shipwreck in 2016. 
the yuan dynasty blue-and-white porcelain haul from this wreck is believed to be the largest such haul ever found from a shipwreck.
only three other wrecks with similar blue and white porcelains have been found, in smaller quantities.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute

longquan celadon dishes, which have a green glaze, were recovered from the wreck.
similar plates have been found in mainland singapore.
st photo: gin tay
• research has dated the ceramics, which formed the bulk of the items salvaged from this wreck, to the 14th and possibly 15th century.
• direct parallels were drawn between these finds, and those from the excavations at empress place and fort canning park in the past, making the shipwreck highly archaeologically and historically significant.
• findings will help to shed light on the maritime trading history of singapore, and how life was like here during the 14th-century temasek period.
a range of artefacts found, which includes (clockwise from top left) a glass bottle stopper, a betelnut cutter, copper-alloy beads, agate medallions, a bronze mortar, glass beads, a copper-alloy bracelet and a gold tag with armenian script.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
• following the end of excavation works for the first shipwreck, nhb and iseas conducted a survey around pedra branca and uncovered a second shipwreck dating to the late 18th century.
efforts were then made to excavate this shipwreck between 2019 and 2021.
• cargo likely from an india-built merchant vessel, the shah munchah, with remnants of the ship's hull.
the vessel sank in 1796 while on a voyage from china to india.
• diverse finds from this ship include both ceramics and non-ceramic objects.
multiple figurines were found, including those of (from left) a chinese couple, a dog, and a qingbai figurine of a horse with a rider wearing a scholar's headgear.
photos: iseas yusof ishak institute
• four anchors as long as 5m and weighing 2.
5 tonnes and nine cannon were recovered from the site.
the cannon were typically mounted on ships employed by the east india company in the 18th and early 19th centuries, and used for defence as well as signalling.
• findings will contribute to research on maritime trading activities around singapore's waters in the 18th century.
a cannon is lifted off the seabed using a craned vessel.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
• instruments like sonars are used to locate objects protruding from the seabed, while magnetometers are used to find iron objects.
• a modern ship, the mv yu seung ho, sank near the site of the second historic wreck in 1979, rendering the magnetometer useless for this survey as metal signatures were unusually high.
• divers went with old-school visual surveys to help find the second historic wreck.
• the site is mapped, including its size and the seabed material, so researchers know what excavation equipment to use.
• environmental conditions are determined to choose the right vessel and diving technique for the excavation.
a diver searching for artefacts on the seabed near a shipwreck that was discovered off pedra branca.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
• a grid is set up on the seabed, and aligned with the ship's keel if one still remains.
no hull was found for the first wreck, while just remnants of the second vessel's hull remained.
• dredging devices, which act like underwater vacuums, are used to unearth artefacts.
• recording is done through various means like photos, videos and sketches.
• collected artefacts are logged according to their grid numbers, while the precise location within the grid is recorded for unique pieces.
• important pieces are packed in bubble wrap, while others are placed in boxes and taken to the storage facility.
a diver sorting various artefacts that were collected from the shipwrecks.
the items are logged according to their grid numbers, and important pieces are packed in bubble wrap.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
• ceramics and glass are desalinated and stabilised by leaching out salts through a simple process of replacing the water they are soaked in.
• metals are placed in a chemical solution.
• organic materials are reinforced if possible.
retrieved artefacts have to go through conservation treatment after they are collected.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
• ceramics are divided into types, like blue and white, or greenware, and also by the kilns they came from if possible.
• artefact information is put into a database, and this is linked to the grid square it was found in, allowing for easy counting.
• distribution how much of each type of artefact was found in different areas over the wreck is studied.
• cataloguing is the final stage, where all the types and quantities of artefacts are listed.
• using distribution information, how the ship was wrecked can be analysed, much like detective work.
• artefacts are identified and dated, which is especially important for items that are no longer being used today.
• findings are compared with existing literature.
chinese and indian texts may shed light on the identity of the first shipwreck, while multiple sources like company records and newspaper reports will help identify the second shipwreck.
• new revelations may be discovered.
for instance, unexpected items like a tambourine and shakers were found in the second shipwreck.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
coca-cola has lost a staggering $4 billion after cristiano ronaldo's viral press conference stunt at euro 2020. speaking to the media ahead of portugal's opening clash with hungary on tuesday, ronaldo didn't want a bar of two coke bottles sitting on the desk in front of him.
coca-cola is the official sponsor of euro 2020 and have placed two bottles in front of everyone speaking at press conferences.
but in a viral moment that has sent social media users into a frenzy, ronaldo picked up the two coca-cola bottles and put them out of sight before holding up his water bottle and saying: "drink water.
"coca-cola probably wouldn't have been impressed by ronaldo's actions, and even less so after taking a look at the stock market on tuesday.
the company saw a staggering $5.
2 billion wiped off its market value in the hours after ronaldo's press conference.
according to the athletic, coca-cola's shares were worth $73 each before the press conference, but dropped to $71.
86 afterwards.
that 1.
6 per cent drop in value is worth the eye-watering total of $5.
2 billion.
coca-cola released a statement after ronaldo's presser, saying "everyone is entitled to their drink preferences" and everyone has different "tastes and needs".
on tuesday, ronaldo became the all-time top scorer at the european championships after two goals in the final minutes helped title holders portugal beat hungary 3-0 in their group f opener.
ronaldo now has 11 goals, taking sole possession of the record he previously shared with france's michel platini on nine.
portugal finally broke the deadlock in a game they dominated thanks to raphael guerreiro six minutes from time just after hungary had a goal ruled out for offside.
a ronaldo penalty and a second effort added to the final score, which was harsh on hungary who worked hard in front of a packed puskas area in budapest the only stadium to be filled to capacity at the euros due to the coronavirus pandemic.
portugal had no trouble controlling the first half but struggled to convert their chances created into goals.
diego jota had a good early opportunity but his powerful header was saved by hungary keeper peter gulacsi, who also managed to block an attempt by ronaldo in the 19th minute when the portuguese superstar was already offside.
ronaldo then wrote his name in the record books with a goal from the spot late in the match after willi orban fouled rafa silva in the box.
the portuguese superstar then scored his 106th for portugal and closed the gap to iranian ali daei's record (109) of the all-time men's international top goalscorer.
"it was important to win, it was a difficult game," ronaldo said.
"i'm grateful to the team for helping me to score two goals and be the man of the match.
now we must go on.
"hungary's szalai said the defeat "is frustrating" and that portugal "didn't work enough to score," while keeper gulacsi believed they needed a little luck to score a goal.
also read: if you had invested rs 25,000 in bitcoin in 2015 this is how rich you would behere's how much money bill gates makes per minutehow much does mark zuckerberg spend on his security?who is the secretive bitcoin billionaire who invented bitcoin?
unveiling satoshi nakamotowith aapaustralia recommended that astrazeneca's covid-19 jab should not be given to people under 60 on thursday, a fresh blow to the country's glacial vaccine rollout.
when 28 chinese warplanes streaked through the skies around taiwan on tuesday – the largest such incursion this year – they followed a pattern that has generated alarm among us and taiwanese military planners.
los angeles lakers superstar lebron james slammed the nba on wednesday as clippers star kawhi leonard became the latest player forced out of the playoffs by injury.
the freehold residential redevelopment site in lorong j telok kurau road presently seats two detached houses and a pair of semi-detached houses, which are to be sold collectively the post freehold residential redevelopment site in telok kurau for sale at $30.
6m appeared first on icompareloan.
if you're a foodie that's leaving the comforts of your home to try the hottest restaurant in town, here are the credit cards you should have in your wallet.
if there's one thing singaporeans love more than good food, it's good food deals.
whether you're [.
.
. ]
the post best dining credit cards in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
israel's ultra-orthodox parties were once viewed as political kingmakers, but now they have been pushed into opposition by a "change" government they fear will put secular values before theirs.
the global infrastructure plan announced by g7 leaders aims to offer developing nations a credible alternative to china's much-criticized belt and road initiative -- but it faces major hurdles on the ground, especially if beijing's hiccups are any indication.
the newly-formed amihan esports wild rift squad went from unknown to become the dark horses that took down team secret at the wild rift ppgl summer playoffs.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
purchases of new private units in singapore declined about 30% to 891 in may from 1,268 in april, urban redevelopment authority figures showed.
for yemeni fisherman fares abdulhakeem and his friends, the day was like any other as they headed out to sea to earn a living in the war-torn country -- until they hit the jackpot in the belly of a whale.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing neitaly became the first team to reach the knockout stage of euro 2020 as midfielder manuel locatelli scored twice in a 3-0 win over switzerland in rome on wednesday, while wales moved to the brink of joining them by beating turkey.
burner phones, safehouses, sheltering with rebels and months away from loved ones -- myanmar anti-coup activists have been driven underground by a brutal crackdown but have no regrets about choosing life on the run.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering oa former mayor in northern mexico has been condemned to eight years in prison for his involvement in the 2017 murder of journalist miroslava breach, prosecutors said wednesday.
there was no talk of gazing into vladimir putin's "soul" and the russian president didn't try to gaslight a rookie us leader.
blackstone group is nearing an agreement to acquire office developer soho china ltd.  in what would be its biggest real estate investment in china, people familiar with the matter said.
hong kong police arrested the chief editor and four executives of pro-democracy newspaper apple daily on thursday, raiding its newsroom for a second time in the latest blow to the outspoken tabloid.
jerusalem: mai afaneh appeared to have a happy family life and a fulfilling career.
so when she left her west bank home early on wednesday, no one thought anything was wrong.
but a short while later, her family received the devastating news that she had been shot and killed by israeli troops, allegedly after carrying out an attempted car-ramming attack.
in just a few short moments, she became another statistic the latest in a list of palestinians killed by the israeli military under unclear circumstances.
the cases play out in a similar pattern.
the army reports an attempted attack by a palestinian assailant, usually acting alone and unaffiliated with any militant group.
then, it says troops "neutralised" the attacker.
some 20 israelis have been killed in shootings, stabbings and car-ramming attacks since 2018, according to israel's foreign ministry.
many others have been badly hurt.
but not all cases are clear.
in cases without israeli casualties, sometimes there is video evidence to support the account.
other times, there isn't.
human rights groups say many of the attackers could have been stopped without killing them, and in some cases, have suggested innocent people were killed.
military investigations are sometimes launched but rarely provide clarity and almost never find wrongdoing on the part of troops.
families, meanwhile, are left wondering what really happened to their loved ones.
afaneh, who was 28, left an inconclusive trail of clues behind her.
she had suffered some health problems.
there were some distraught facebook posts about palestinians killed by israel.
but relatives said she had no reason or ability to carry out an attack.
she had earned her doctorate in psychology in jordan, was happily teaching at a local university and had a good family life with her husband and 5-year-old daughter, relatives said.
"she was not politically affiliated.
all she cared about was her studies and helping her family and husband," said her father, khaled afaneh.
he said the previous night she was laughing and talkative before dropping off her daughter to spend the night with the grandparents.
he said she needed colon surgery, had just gotten out of the hospital and was very weak.
"even if she really wanted to attack, they could easily stop her.
there was no justification to kill her," he said, speaking at the family's home in abu dis, a town on the eastern outskirts of jerusalem.
according to the military, afaneh drove her car toward a group of soldiers who were guarding a construction site in hizmeh, about a half-hour drive from her home, then got out of the vehicle brandishing a knife before she was shot.
the military said one soldier was lightly injured jumping out of the way of the car.
it said there were no security cameras at the scene so it couldn't provide footage of the incident.
"i believe she lost control over the car.
maybe she entered the wrong way," said her uncle, usama afaneh.
"i don't believe she intended to do anything.
it's not her nature.
"the uncle said she had told her husband that morning that she was going out to pick up some breakfast.
he had no idea how she ended up so far away from the house but speculated she was on her way to the city of ramallah, where she sometimes did work for her university.
despite her upbeat demeanour, some of afaneh's posts on social media were troubling.
on may 15, at the height of israel's war against hamas militants in the gaza strip last month, she posted a photo of what appears to be a dead palestinian child.
"we will stay here, either martyrdom or victory," she wrote.
a smaller photo showed her with a palestinian flag painted on her face.
on instagram, she wrote: "there is no more life left to live.
"the following day, under the same photo of the child, she wrote on facebook: "my little one, your tears are cleaner than zamzam water," referring to a spring in saudi arabia that is revered by muslims.
"we will give birth to children even if we know that they will be martyrs in the future.
"her father played down the posts, saying they were written at the height of a bloody war and reflected the general mood of palestinians at the time.
he said he remained in shock as he searched for answers.
"i didn't expect this to happen.
actually i don't know what happened.
nobody has seen what happened," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: temperatures ranging from 23 to 27 degrees celsius and ambient humidity of 50 to 60 per cent are typically the conditions needed to air-cool a data centre housing powerful computers and rows of servers.
but to maintain a controlled environment like that requires plenty of energy, even more so if the data centre is set in a tropical location like singapore.
to develop novel and more energy-efficient ways of cooling data centres in the tropics, a new s$23 million research programme was announced by the national university of singapore (nus) and the nanyang technological university (ntu) on wednesday (jun 16).
as part of that, a testbed facility with "state-of-the-art" equipment will be set up at the nus kent ridge campus and will be up and running by october.
the sustainable tropical data centre testbed (stdct), as it is called, will "promote the co-creation and demonstration of advanced cooling technologies", the universities said in a joint press release.
the programme is jointly funded by the national research foundation singapore (nrf), a department under the prime minister's office, and facebook, which is the anchor industry partner.
research at the stdct will be co-led by researchers from the nus, ntu and industry partners such as keppel data centres, with support from the relevant government agencies.
"companies will share their needs and requirements with the research community to ideate and innovate the solutions," the press release said.
one area that researchers are examining is a heat sink design with both air and liquid modes of cooling in a single integrated piece that eliminates the connectors and ducts.
led by nus associate professor lee poh seng, who is also the programme director at stdct, this "direct chip hybrid cooling" idea can be an alternative air-cooling solution during water-loop maintenance to cut down server downtime.
another, led by ntu's associate professor tan rui, will test the possibility of air-cooling data centres at higher temperatures and relative humidity levels to reduce energy consumption yet ensuring the performance of the it equipment.
when successfully developed and tested, a combination of the new cooling technologies being studied at the stdct could reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by "up to 25 per cent", compared with data centres that are traditionally air-cooled.
an industry-wide adoption across the entire tropical region can also potentially cut the industry's energy usage by "at least 40 per cent", the press release said.
"the demonstration and validation of innovative cooling technologies at the testbed facility can greatly mitigate the operational and financial risks of adopting these solutions," the universities said.
"this will accelerate adoption, as well as enhance the sustainability of the data centre industry in singapore and the wider tropical region.
"in the longer term, the stdct hopes to recommend operating guidelines and set new standards based on proven findings from its new technologies to enable greener data centres.
meanwhile, the facility itself will feature energy-efficient cooling solutions, such as the statepoint liquid cooling system developed by nortek air solutions and facebook that helps data centres to operate more efficiently in tropical locations.
greening data centresthe rise of the digital economy has led to growing demand for data centres but the booming industry's huge energy needs are also raising concerns.
the international energy agency estimates that the sector currently uses around 1 per cent of the world's electricity.
this figure could hit double-digits by 2030, making related emissions a problem.
in singapore, data centres accounted for 7 per cent of the country's total electricity consumption last year.
this is projected to reach 12 per cent by 2030, the universities' press release said.
with the industry being an "intensive" user of electricity and water, a "temporary pause" has since been imposed on the building of new data centres as local authorities mull a balance between environmental sustainability and supporting business needs.
the government has said it is in the midst of concluding its review and intends to share its plans with the industry later this year.
nrf's chief executive low teck seng said the stdct will help to accelerate the development and test-bedding of innovative and sustainable solutions for data centres towards commercial deployment.
it will also support singapore's journey towards becoming a low-emissions economy as part of the foundation's energy grid 2.
0 programme, he added.
the infocomm media development authority (imda), which is supporting the research programme, said it will work closely with the industry to bring about more energy-efficient data centres and encourage the adoption of best-in-class technologies, solutions and standards.
"this will enable us to grow our data centre ecosystem sustainably and further entrench singapore as one of the world's leading data centre hubs," said cluster director for infrastructure planning and facilitation yeo tiong yeow.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's king al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah said on wednesday (jun 16) that parliamentary sittings should reconvene as soon as possible, after he chaired a special rulers' conference.
a statement issued by the palace said: "after reviewing all the perspectives of the leaders of the political parties, the 2021 independent emergency special committee as well as briefings by experts from government agencies, his majesty expressed the view that parliamentary sessions should be held as soon as possible.
"it added: "this is to enable the emergency ordinances and the national recovery plan to be debated by the members of the house of representatives.
"according to the statement, the king expressed hope that the covid-19 outbreak could be curbed immediately and that vaccination was the only "exit strategy" to control the spread of the pandemic.
"in this regard, his majesty expressed the view that the government must act decisively to simplify bureaucracy andspeed up the vaccination process for the people so that the goal of herd immunity of 80 per cent can be achieved as soon as possible," it added.
the statement also highlighted that sultan abdullah expressed the view that there was a need for "a stable and strong government administration" able to function effectively in dealing with the pandemic.
"his majesty is fully aware of the role of parliament as an important platform for elected representatives to convene and discuss various issues, especially those related to the spread of the covid-19 pandemic," it said.
"members of the dewan rakyat can discuss the allocation of government expenditure to help people in need and revive the national economy," the statement added.
the special conference on wednesday was held after the king met with 18 key leaders of malaysian political parties and the special independent committee on emergency 2021. the kingfirst declared a state of emergency on jan 12to curb the spread of covid-19.
the emergency was scheduled to last until aug 1 or earlier depending on the state of coronavirus infections.
since it was declared, federal parliamentary sessions and state legislative assemblies have not sat.
no elections were held during this period.
the state of emergency allows the king to proclaim several emergency ordinances on matters related to private hospital assets; temporary ownership of land, buildings or moveable properties of private hospitals; or to request to use the resources of private hospitals to treat patients.
the government can also seek a more inclusive involvement from the private sector including private healthcare facilities to help ease the burden of government agencies, especially public hospitals.
the suspension of parliament was seen as a move that helped prime minister muhyiddin yassin avoid an immediate challenge to his razor-thin majority in the august house.
opposition leaders have pleaded with the king againstextending the state of emergencyand called for parliament to reconvene.
on tuesday, mr muhyiddin said parliament could reconvene in september or october this year during the third phase of a national recovery plan.
"i wish to give my commitment that the parliament meeting can be held in this phase, around september or october, with tight standard operating procedures (sops) in place," he said whenunveiling the plan which comprises four phases in a televised address.
malaysia reported 5,150 new covid-19 cases on wednesday and the national total is currently 673,026. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
sydney: major banks and airlines were among businesses hit by a fresh global online outage on thursday (jun 17), with the problem traced to us-based tech provider akamai.
an hour-long blackout hit a number of us airlines and several australian financial firms as well as other companies dotted around the world, with angry customers unable to access websites and mobile apps.
"we are aware of the issue and actively working to restore services as soon as possible," an akamai spokesperson told afp.
american, delta, united and southwest airlines were among those affected, while the issue appeared to be more prolonged in australia where problems struck in mid-afternoon as much of the rest of the world slept.
australia's largest financial firm commonwealth bank told afp that it and many of the country's major lenders had been hit.
the outages, which began around 2.
10pm sydney time (12.
10pm singapore time), also hit australia's postal service and virgin australia.
the airline said in a statement that it "was one of many organisations to experience an outage with the akamai content delivery system".
a spokesperson for anz bank told afp the incident was "related to an external provider" but that "connectivity was restored quickly and the most impacted services are back online".
westpac and me bank also reported problems with their mobile apps or online banking products, while customers for st george and several regional banks reported they were also down.
it is the latest incident to draw attention to the stability of economically vital online platforms, and the key role that a handful of mostly unknown companies play in keeping the web running.
last week us media and government websites, including the white house, new york times, reddit and amazon were temporarily hit after a glitch with cloud computing services provider fastly.
fastly offers a service to websites around the world to speed up loading time for websites.
akamai offers a range of similar it products designed to boost online performance and security.
the cambridge, massachusetts-based company did not specify what product the problem came from, but one company reported it used akamai for "it network authentication".
a series of high-profile hack-for-ransom attacks have also left corporations around the world jittery over cybersecurity risks, although there was no indication the latest problems were caused by malicious actors.
colonial pipeline was briefly shuttered after an attack in may, and jbs, the world's largest meat producer, was forced to stop operations in the united states and australia.
both firms reportedly paid ransom to get operations back up and running.
the issue of cybersecurity was at the top of the agenda when us president joe biden and his russian counterpart vladimir putin met in geneva on wednesday.
washington believes hackers who have extorted hundreds of millions of dollars from western governments, companies, and organisations operate from russian soil.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
ways to search theedgemarkets.
com contentby title: @title "the edge malaysia"by author: @author "lucas wong"by category: @category "corporate" "hot stock" combine search:  "high speed rail" @author "bhattacharjee" @category "from the edge"searching either words : 1mdb mas searching all words : "genting berhad"searching chinese phrase : ""(june 17): they've raised salaries and promised quicker promotions.
but the world's biggest securities firms and banks are still struggling to retain junior investment bankers in asia, challenging their expansion plans for a region that's growing faster than almost anywhere else.
recruiters and executives say the exodus is in some ways more difficult to stem than in new york and london, where analysts and associates have rebelled against the industry's work-till-you-drop culture.
in asia's biggest hubs, young employees are more likely to leave because they think they can earn more -- and climb the corporate ladder faster -- at one of the many fintech and investment firms that have sprouted up to tap the region's buoyant economies and swelling piles of wealth.
the challenge is particularly acute in china and hong kong as foreign firms ramp up hiring to take advantage of a financial opening in asia's largest economy, competing with each other as well as the local startup scene.
"the whole industry is running into a pretty big supply and demand issue, and i don't think this is going to be alleviated any time soon," mark leung, jpmorgan chase & co. 's chief executive officer for china, said in a bloomberg television interview.
the u. s.  lender is among banks including goldman sachs group inc. , credit suisse group ag and hsbc holdings plc.
hiring hundreds of staff for their push into china.
while it's hard to quantify turnover with any certainty, an informal bloomberg news poll of executives at four global securities firms found that anywhere between 13% to 15% of investment banking analysts and associates left their roles this year, roughly double the average in previous years.
that's in line with estimates for the u. s.  and higher than the u. k. , according to executives at recruiting firms.
exits have picked up despite annual pay raises of 25% to 30% since 2019 for hong kong-based bankers covering in-demand sectors like technology and health care, said executives who oversee groups or the region, asking not to be named discussing private information.
the increments have been more subdued for southeast asia where attrition is also rising, one of them said.
jonathan lam left hsbc holdings plc's investment bank in hong kong in the middle of last year to join butler, a home concierge company he helped start that offers personalized services ranging from housekeeping to fixing washing machines and hosting dinner parties.
it was the feeling of making an impact and "owning something" that drove lam to quit his debt capital markets job right after a promotion, he said.
the prospect of a financial windfall also helped.
"with banking you can make good money in the short term, but with startups, if you grind it through, it will lead to big fortunes," said lam, 30, who founded butler with alumni of goldman sachs group inc.  and wells fargo & co.  the startup completed a funding round last year and has 30 employees.
asia's economic rise has made it one of the world's most attractive regions for entrepreneurs.
its share of global startup investments rose to about 40% in 2015-2017, up from 10% a decade earlier, according to mckinsey.
it's home to more than a third of the world's unicorns, the nickname for startups valued at $1 billion or more.
the attrition is made more acute by the fact that finance is still a growth industry in asia and is smaller relative to the overall economy than in the u. s.  and europe.
more than half of finance firms in mainland china surveyed by recruitment firm michael page expect to increase their headcount by about 11% this year, on average.
financial services will likely be the most-active recruiter in hong kong and the second most-active in singapore, the poll showed.
some smaller hedge funds and money managers in hong kong are offering double the salary to lure talent, two quantitative trading analysts at a wall street bank said based on approaches from headhunters.
private equity firms, where employees get a share of profits, have also been active recruiters of junior talent in the past year, including bain capital, pag and hillhouse capital, one of the people said.
in singapore, opportunities are sprouting at hedge funds and private equity firms as well as a new breed of fintech and digital banking firms, according to lim chai leng, a senior director at recruiting firm randstad singapore.
startups and smaller boutique firms can offer flexible working and other benefits that established players have struggled to keep up with, said james carss, managing director at executive search firm nrg in the u. k.  the churn rate in the u. k.  is three to four months behind asia, but is likely to catch up, he said.
big technology firms are also drawing from the banks.
morgan stanley vice president shiyi lin last month left to join the strategic investment group at alibaba group holding ltd. , according her linkedin page.
in singapore, jack ma's ant group co. , southeast asia's most-valuable startup grab holdings inc.  and its most valuable company sea ltd.  are setting up digital banks.
daniel yuan, a yale-educated former analyst at goldman sachs, left in 2019 to become chief of staff at online finance company futu holdings ltd.  while he credits goldman for teaching him everything he knows about finance, he found his ability to move up the ladder too rigid.
"i knew exactly what i needed to do and how long i needed to keep doing this in order to advance my career at goldman," yuan said.
"at a leaner and more entrepreneurial corporate like futu, there's a lot of flexibility around what i can do, especially in my capacity as the chief of staff.
"banks are starting to notice.
one example is lam's old firm, hsbc, which counts hong kong as its largest market.
the lender, which is in a midst of a major pivot to asia, last month promised a shorter career path for new associates, offering promotions after three years instead of four.
it also pledged to boost pay.
jpmorgan is also hiring more junior bankers and staff globally.
globally, lenders are raising pay for junior employees, enforcing curfews and hiring more to prevent defections and ease discontent as a jump in deals during the pandemic intensified the focus on work-life issues.
wall street was set abuzz earlier this year by a leaked presentation from junior analysts at goldman sachs that detailed their grueling workload and punishing hours.
spokespeople for goldman, hsbc and jpmorgan declined to comment for this story.
"in asia, junior bankers are more likely to leave for career opportunities that they see as more financially attractive," said john mullally, regional director at robert walters in hong kong.
"the long hours and stress of banking careers are a factor, but just not as much as it is for their counterparts in europe and the u. s. "for some beleaguered bankers, the exodus of their colleagues at the same time as dealmaking is thriving, is taking its toll.
over the past 12 months, mergers and acquisitions have jumped 30% in asia pacific, while initial public offerings have risen 44%, according to data compiled by bloomberg.
an associate at jpmorgan, who asked not to be named, said his workload doubled after a colleague quit for a financial technology firm in december, leaving him to work 18 hours a day, on average, without a break for almost two months.
he's now actively looking for a job at a buy-side firm, he said, looking for a place with less hierarchy and more opportunities for career advancement.
we deliver news to your inbox daily© all rights reserved.
2020.  the edge communications sdn.
bhd.
coronavirus india live updates: the us centers for disease control and prevention has classified the delta, a highly transmissible covid-19 variant first identified in india, as a "variant of concern.
"india reported 67,208 new coronavirus cases and 2,330 deaths in the last 24 hours.
with this, the country's overall caseload rose to 2.
97 crore, while the death toll surged to 3.
81 lakh.
kerala remains the top contributor with 13,270 cases.
the number of active cases dropped to 8.
26 lakh, the lowest in 71 days.
kerala is set to gradually ease lockdown restrictions from today onwards following a decline in daily reported cases.
however, a complete lockdown will continue in the state during the weekend.
shop selling essential good will remain open between 7 am and 7 pm, while public transport will be permitted to partially operate.
in other news, several hospitals across delhi have reported cases of multi inflammatory syndrome in children (mis-c) as a post-covid complication over the last month, though city pediatricians emphasise that affected children have responded well to treatment.
in karnataka, scientists are studying genomic sequences of the sars-cov-2 virus among children infected in the second wave in order to ascertain if infections are being caused by the existing variants of the virus or newer ones.
the us centers for disease control and prevention has classified the delta, a highly transmissible covid-19 variant first identified in india, as a "variant of concern. "
"the b.
1.
1.
7 (alpha), b.
1.
351 (beta), p. 1 (gamma), b.
1.
427 (epsilon), b.
1.
429 (epsilon), and b.
1.
617.
2 (delta) variants circulating in the united states are classified as variants of concern.
to date, no variants of high consequence have been identified in the united states," the cdc said in a statement on tuesday.
the cdc said the delta variant shows increased transmissibility, potential reduction in neutralisation by some monoclonal antibody treatments under emergency authorisation and potential reduction in neutralization from sera after vaccination in lab tests.
the variant of concern designation is given to strains of the virus that scientists believe are more transmissible or can cause more severe disease.
vaccines, treatments and tests that detect the virus may also be less effective against a variant of concern.
(pti)kerala is set to gradually ease lockdown restrictions from today onwards following a decline in daily reported cases.
however, a complete lockdown will continue in the state during the weekend.
shop selling essential good will remain open between 7 am and 7 pm, while public transport will be permitted to partially operate.
kerala government eases curbs from today while complete lockdown will continue on weekends; visuals from kochishops selling essential items will be allowed to operate daily from 7am to 7pm & public transport can operate on a limited basis#covid19 pic.
twitter.
com/tbrkpgirwg

delhi has recorded 14.
4 lakh covid cases since the first case was confirmed in march last year.
since then, the city has seen four waves of infections, of which the last was the deadliest.
over the past three weeks, however, the number of cases has been dipping.
here is what the caseload analysis for the past month tells us:* 40,470 people tested positive for covid in delhi between may 15 and june 15* over half — 51% — were in the 30 to 60 age group* this was followed by the 15-30 age group, which constituted around 28% of the total caseload* those above the age of 60 constituted 17% of the caseloadread the full report here.
chief minister arvind kejriwal wednesday said the delhi government would train 5,000 youth as "health assistants" in the coming weeks to prepare for a possible third wave of covid-19 infections in the city.
"in the last few days, preparations are being made to protect delhi from a possible third wave of covid.
i have visited many hospitals.
we are setting up oxygen plants and making arrangements for oxygen concentrators, cylinders and storage tanks as well.
but if a third wave comes — as we saw in the first and second waves — we face shortage of medical and paramedical staff," he said in a press conference.
"keeping that in mind, the government has made a grand ambitious plan to prepare 5,000 health assistants.
in technical terms, they are called 'community nursing assistants'," he said.
read the full report here.
with a state-appointed task force wednesday expressing apprehension that a third wave of the pandemic could hit maharashtra in a month or two if covid-appropriate behaviour was not followed, chief minister uddhav thackeray directed senior doctors and officers to ensure medicines and health equipment were available across urban and rural areas.
at a meeting to review the preparations for the possible third wave of the pandemic, the cm was informed that a highly virulent "delta plus" variant of the coronavirus could stoke a third wave in maharashtra.
the state health department officers also said while the number of patients during the second wave was much higher than the first due to the 'delta variant' of the virus, the third wave may even see a higher volume of patients.
the state recorded around 19 lakh patients in the first wave of the pandemic and nearly 40 lakh in the second.
health officials said the third wave could even see eight lakh active patients, of whom 10 per cent could be children.
read the full report here.
with the second wave of covid-19 infections on a decline, footfall of passengers at the pune airport has seen considerable rise over the last one week.
this has led to airlines adding flights to their daily schedule.
as a result, flight movement from the airport has gone up from 26 per day in the middle of may to about 46 per day in mid-june.
airport officials said they expect that passenger activity will improve further in the coming weeks.
"as the severity of the infection spread will go down, more people will buy tickets to travel and the number of flights will go up.
we are seeing increasing footfall and flight operations since the second wave of the covid-19 pandemic has started receding and businesses are opening up," said airport director kuldeep singh.
read the full report here.
over the last month, several hospitals across delhi have reported cases of multi inflammatory syndrome in children (mis-c) as a post-covid complication, though city pediatricians emphasise that affected children have responded well to treatment.
according to the lancet, the factors that trigger the condition are not yet known but it is thought to be a rare immune overreaction that occurs approximately four to six weeks after a mild or asymptomatic sars-cov-2 infection.
the symptoms include fever for three days, rash, eye infection and gastrointestinal symptoms like diarrhoea, stomach-ache and nausea.
in very rare cases, the condition can lead to multi-organ failure.
read the full report here.
scientists in karnataka are studying genomic sequences of the sars-cov-2 virus among children infected in the second wave in order to ascertain if infections are being caused by the existing variants of the virus or newer ones.
a technical advisory committee advising the state government on the covid-19crisis has tasked the nodal officer for genome sequencing in the state, prof v ravi, a former professor of virology, to study gene sequences in samples of children who tested positive for covid.
"samples are now being collected and they need to be processed.
we should have data and information in about 15 days," he said.
"we have discussed the issue of infections among children and some additional work is required to study the genomic sequencing of viruses from samples of children," said prof m k sudarshan, a public health expert and chairman of the state technical advisory committee.
read the full report here.
india reported 67,208 new coronavirus cases and 2,330 deaths in the last 24 hours.
with this, the country's overall caseload rose to 2.
97 crore, while the death toll surged to 3.
81 lakh.
the number of active cases dropped to 8.
26 lakh, the lowest in 71 days.
india reports 67,208 new #covid19 cases, 1,03,570 discharges & 2,330 deaths in last 24 hours, as per health ministrytotal cases: 2,97,00,313total discharges: 2,84,91,670 death toll: 3,81,903 active cases: 8,26,740 (lowest after 71 days)total vaccination: 26,55,19,251 pic.
twitter.
com/imnmfjsac7

dr reddy's in a statement wednesday said that the soft launch of sputnik v vaccine in india, which was initiated in hyderabad, has been scaled up to many cities including bengaluru, mumbai, kolkata, delhi, chennai, among others.
it added that registration on cowin was not open to public yet, but will be open at the time of commercial launch.
meanwhile, drugs such as ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, favipiravir and antibiotics like doxycycline and azithromycin prescribed for adult covid patients are not recommended for treating children, stated a government guideline issued on wednesday.
the guidelines by the union health ministry said the decision has been taken since most of these drugs used in adults are have not been tested on children for prevention or treatment of covid infection among them.
india recorded 62,224 new covid-19 cases and 2,542 deaths on tuesday.
with this, the country's overall caseload rose to 2.
96 crore, while the death toll surged to 3.
62 lakh.
kerala is the top contributor, adding 12,246 new cases to the country's caseload.
the number of fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours are 212 in delhi, 830 in mumbai, 1,611 in bengaluru, 377 in kolkata and 689 in chennai.
meanwhile, in a statement, the government said that its decision to increase the gap between two shots of covishield from 4-6 weeks to 12-16 weeks lies in "fundamental scientific reason regarding behaviour of adenovector vaccines", according to the national technical advisory group on immunisation (ntagi).
kuala lumpur: a malaysian court on wednesday (jun 16) overturned an inquest verdict of"misadventure"in the death of a french-irish teen who vanished in the jungle, replacing it with an "open" ruling in a victory for her family.
the initial verdict indicated that the death was accidental, but the new ruling suggests that there are still questions to be answered in the case and leaves open the possibility of criminal involvement.
the body of nora quoirin, a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down the misadventure ruling and said that no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims that their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed".
theylodged a challenge, seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict.
judge azizul azmi adnan ruled in their favour on wednesday, telling the seremban high court that "in the interests of justice" the misadventure verdict should be overturned and substituted with an open ruling.
"there was no credible evidence to support any other verdict," he added.
massive huntmalaysian police have stuck to their version of events that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes that someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, in a stream in the jungle not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked into the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving helicopters, sniffer dogs and hundreds of rescuers.
an autopsy concluded that she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said that the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign that she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
but during the inquest, the teen's parents said they heard mysterious "muffled noises" coming from the accommodation the night of the schoolgirl's disappearance, fuelling their belief that she was snatched.
they also criticised authorities for their response to their daughter's disappearance as too slow.
police have insisted that they conducted a comprehensive search.
the 5ha resort is next to a patch of thick jungle and in the foothills of a mountain range.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
she attended a school for young people with learning difficulties.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
a transformed global context and the rise of china put any decisions made at biden's meeting with putin into perspectivelast modified on thu 17 jun 2021 05.
13 edtjoe biden's meeting with vladimir putin in geneva looked like a summit, sounded like a summit, and in some genuine senses really was a summit.
but it was not an east-west superpower summit in the 20th-century sense.
it was a bilateral meeting between the leaders of two important countries whose relations are possibly more difficult today than they were in the cold war.
yet life on earth did not seem to hang in the balance yesterday, as it sometimes could do back then.
throughout its history russia has often been simultaneously strong and weak, at home and abroad.
now, in a century marked by growing chinese power and the deep polarisation of its domestic politics, something similar can be said of the united states, too.
relative decline has not made either country less suspicious of the other.
perhaps the most significant thing about their meeting was therefore that it occurred at all.
but these two countries no longer bestride the globe.
biden's first presidential swing through europe has been choreographed to vindicate his claim that the us is back on the world stage after the chaos of donald trump.
that claim needs to be interrogated carefully.
biden's foreign policy team is full of experience.
the administration is committed to alliances in ways trump was not.
even so, the lessons of geneva, and of the g7 and nato meetings that preceded it, are that the us is back, but necessarily in a different way and in a different world.
the immediate evidence for this is that both the g7 and the nato meetings focused as much on china as on russia.
in cornwall the g7 attacked both countries: china for its internal repression and for the unexplained origins of the covid pandemic; russia for its use of biological and cyber weapons.
in brussels the next day, nato leaders did the same: china was portrayed as an expansionist power whose increased military ambitions require an alliance response, while russia's ukraine policy, weapons buildup and hacking were described as aggressive threats.
there are important nuances in all this.
some european countries, jealous to guard their trade links with china and fearful of how the us may vote in 2024, are reluctant to join biden's stronger critique.
the g7 therefore failed to agree on an aid package to counter beijing's massive and well-established overseas belt and road initiative, or a vaccine aid programme that would address the scale of asian and african need.
nato's communique also distinguished carefully between the chinese "challenge" and the russian "threat".
the shift of focus to china, driven by the us under both biden and trump, is nevertheless a big strategic event.
the reorientation of nato, in particular, is remarkable.
but it throws into relief the massive question of whether the western nations possess either the will or resources to carry it through.
the signs of division this week will have been noted in beijing.
the west may will the ends, but it does not yet will the means.
biden's visit to europe was greeted with immense relief, but its practical effects have yet to be tested.
any temptation to suppose the international order has simply hit the resume button after an unwelcome four-year pause should therefore be resisted.
nevertheless, a us-russia summit in geneva still has the capacity to resonate.
it was in the lakeside swiss city, after all, where the two sides came together in 1955 in a tentative effort to ease the cold war.
it was there that 1982's "walk in the woods" produced hopes of an end to the nuclear arms race.
and it was in geneva where, three years later, the reagan-gorbachev talks helped quicken a process that would lead to the peaceful collapse of the soviet union.
that, however, was all more than 30 years ago.
yesterday's biden-putin meeting offered surface continuity with aspects of that past, but crucially not the content.
the us and russia remain major powers, but each is diminished and must operate in the new global context.
china's rise is not the only factor in this.
the stagnation of european prosperity, the growing dynamism of asia and the potential of africa matter, too.
this is also the era of the climate crisis and the daily deployment of cyberweapons, not just of the potentially world-ending nuclear armageddon that dominated post-1945 international relations.
that certainly did not mean there was nothing for the us and russia to discuss yesterday, or that the summit was unimportant.
but the task facing the two is difficult in new ways.
the us and russia are fighting a permanent, mostly low-level conflict.
biden is right to explore the viability of more settled relations.
putin was right to emerge from his covid-secure cocoon to explore whether biden takes russia seriously and is willing to do business with moscow.
none of this is likely to happen soon, though.
the best that can be hoped is for a gradually emerging process and some protocols.
however, once the geneva spotlight is dimmed there are, at least in theory, possible bargains that can be explored on cyber, on climate and even potentially on geopolitical issues such as russia's near-abroad and the middle east, just as there still are on arms.
these are complex and interwoven issues.
they require immense amounts of patient talk, with measured approaches to building necessary degrees of trust, not least with cautious allies.
that is in short supply already, as this week showed.
the difficulty of some of the compromises that could be involved suggest this may not change any time soon.
martin kettle is a guardian columnist

                        from elementary school essay competitions to patriotic films to an unending parade of speeches, banners, and news headlines, china is in the midst of celebrating the ccp's 100-year anniversary
                    
                            women gesture as they pose for a souvenir picture at a photo exhibition featuring people's lives under communist party from 1921 to 2021 on display at the wangfujing shopping district in beijing.
ap
                        the chinese communist party (ccp) is all set for a patriotic extravaganza to celebrate the 100th anniversary of its founding on 1 july.
since the establishment of the people's republic of china in 1949, the ccp has been in sole control of that country's government.
with its centenarian celebrations looming, party leaders are pulling out all the stops to celebrate the party's founding 100 years ago.
from elementary school essay competitions to patriotic films to an unending parade of speeches, banners, and news headlines, china is in the midst of celebrating the ccp's 100-year anniversary.
the communist party of china has more than 91 million members, according to the official xinhua news agency — many of them grassroots cadres and ordinary civil servants.
the ccp was founded as both a political party and a revolutionary movement in 1921 by revolutionaries such as li dazhao and chen duxiu.
those two men and others had come out of the may fourth movement (1919) and had turned to marxism after the bolshevik victory in the russian revolution of 1917.  in the turmoil of 1920s china, ccp members such as mao zedong, liu shaoqi, and li lisan began organizing labour unions in the cities.
it is a monolithic, monopolistic party that dominates the political life of china.
it is the major policy-making body in china and oversees the central, provincial, and local organs of government to carry out those policies.
let's take a look at 10 defining moments for the party in the last century.
1. may fourth movementthe party's journey started in 1921 when ccp was formed.
china at that time was driven by feuding warlords, deeply mired in poverty, and powerless on the international stage.
the republic of china was established in 1912, but its government was weak and largely unable to solve china's problems, as noted by axios.
however, in reality, there was a war between regional warlords and militias, who claimed independence from the national government and sought to serve their own needs.
on 4 may, 1919, thousands of students rallied in beijing for a demonstration against the national government.
in what is now called the may fourth movement,  on 4 may, 19191, more than 3,000 students from 13 colleges in beijing held a mass demonstration against the decision of the versailles peace conference, which drew up the treaty officially ending world war i, to transfer the former german concessions in shandong province to japan.
the chinese government's acquiescence to the decision so enraged the students that they burned the house of the minister of communications and assaulted china's minister to japan, both pro-japanese officials.
over the following weeks, demonstrations occurred throughout the country; several students died or were wounded in these incidents.
2.  great leap forwarda decade after the communist party took power in 1949, one of the largest manmade disasters in history struck an already impoverished land.
in an unremarkable city in central henan province, more than a million people – one in eight – were wiped out by starvation and brutality over three short years, as per the guardian.
the ironically titled "great leap forward", a five-year economic plan, was supposed to be the culmination of mao zedong's program for transforming china into a communist paradise.
the campaign was undertaken by the chinese communists between 1958 and early 1960 to organize its vast population, especially in large-scale rural communes, to meet china's industrial and agricultural problems.
as per the bbc, the drive produced an economic breakdown and was abandoned after two years.
disruption to agriculture is blamed for the deaths by starvation of millions of people following poor harvests.
3.  tibet's incorporationtibet's incorporation into the people's republic of china began in 1950 and has remained a highly charged and controversial issue, both within tibet and worldwide.
many tibetans (especially those outside china) consider china's action to be an invasion of a sovereign country, and the continued chinese presence in tibet is deemed an occupation by a foreign power.
in 1950, chinese troops entered tibet, and a year later, the chinese government formally gained control over the region and its devoutly buddhist tibetans.
the dalai lama fled tibet in 1959, to india, following a failed uprising against chinese rule.
the dalai lama and the exiled government, also known as the central tibetan administration (cta), has proposed what they call a "middle way" approach that would allow the exiled tibetans to return to china on the condition of "genuine autonomy" for tibet, though not full independence.
in 2008, anti-china protests escalated into the worst violence tibet had seen, just five months before beijing was to host the olympic games.
pro-tibet activists in several countries focussed world attention on the region by disrupting the progress of the olympic torch relay.
however, since 2010, the ccp has rebuffed attempts by the cta to reopen dialogue and maintains that the dalai lama is a separatist.
4.  cultural revolutionthe great proletarian cultural revolution was a decade-long period of political and social chaos caused by mao zedong's bid to use the chinese masses to reassert his control over the communist party.
fearing that china would develop along the lines of the soviet model and concerned about his own place in history, mao threw china's cities into turmoil in a monumental effort to reverse the historic processes underway.
in response to mao's admonishments, the red guard movement was formed.
the red guards was a mass student-led paramilitary social movement mobilized.
while they sought to reinforce the maoist standards of communism, they were largely undisciplined and caused violence among those they saw as capitalists.
they formed under the auspices of the chinese communist party (ccp) in 1966 in order to help party chairman mao zedong combat "revisionist" authorities—i.
e. , those party leaders mao considered as being insufficiently revolutionarythe revolution marked mao's return to the central position of power in china after a period of less radical leadership to recover from the failures of the great leap forward, which contributed to the great chinese famine only five years prior.
the cultural revolution lasted for at least 10 years up until mao's death in 1976.
5.  rise of deng xiaopingby orchestrating china's transition to a market economy, deng xiaoping left a lasting legacy on china and the world.
after becoming the leader of the communist party of china in 1978, following mao zedong's death two years earlier, deng launched a program of reform that ultimately saw china become the world's largest economy in terms of its purchasing power in 2014, according to the conversation.
xiaoping was one of the most powerful figures in the people's republic of china from the late 1970s until his death in 1997.  he abandoned many orthodox communist doctrines and attempted to incorporate elements of the free-enterprise system and other reforms into the chinese economy.
under him, china undertook far-reaching economic reforms.
the government imposed a one-child policy in an effort to curb population growth.
with the "open-door policy", the party also opens the country to foreign investment and encourages development of a market economy and private sector.
6.  tiananmen squarewhile xiaoping hoped to boost the economy and raise living standards by opening up the economy, the move brought with it corruption, while at the same time raising hopes for greater political openness.
updated date:
                
                    june 15, 2021 09:54:39 ist
                

                        tags:
                    
                frontline and healthcare workers were assigned additional duties to help manage the public health emergency.
but while the number of tasks expected of ashas kept increasing, the protective gear dwindled


            
                the centre will take over from states, which were supposed to be carrying out about 25 percent of the country's vaccination work, and continue with its ongoing inoculation efforts
            
                ethanol is a biofuel, that is, a fuel produced by processing organic matter.
the auto fuels we commonly use are mainly derived from the slow geological process of fossilisation, which is why they are also known as fossil fuels
            sign up for a weekly curated briefing of the most important strategic affairs stories from across the world.
firstpostsectionplustoolsappsnetwork18 sites copyright © 2021.  firstpost all rights reserved.
geneva: despite the soaring summer temperatures in geneva on wednesday (jun 16), beyond the surface pleasantries there was little sign of personal warmth between joe biden and vladimir putin followingtheir first summit.
the us and russian presidentsshook hands and smiledas they went in for talks at a plush 18th-century villa in the swiss city.
however, though both sides said the tone of the meeting had been positive and constructive, the feeling was that it had been workmanlike rather than chummy.
"we know each other but we're not old friends.
it's just pure business," biden told a press conference afterwards.
biden had flown into geneva the evening before and spent the night at the five-star intercontinental hotel.
putin jetted in just before the summit, his motorcade whisking him straight to the sumptuous la grange venue.
a geneva protocol official said one of the lakeside villa's benefits was its symmetry, meaning it could be easily divided giving both camps a perfectly equal number of rooms and no chance for one-upmanship.
frenzied scufflethe even-handedness stretched to the layout of flags outside the entrance for when putin and biden flanked swiss president guy parmelin for a photograph before the two guests headed in for talks.
the russian, swiss and us flags were out on either side though the russian one was foremost on the side putin stood on, with the us flag first on biden's side.
parmelin wished them "a fruitful dialogue in the interests of your two countries and the world.
best wishes, and goodbye", before simply walking off, leaving the two visiting presidents on the doorstep seemingly wondering what to do next.
biden turned towards putin and then extended his hand.
the pair shook hands for less than four seconds, exchanged a few words and smiled before heading inside.
they were shown into the villa's showpiece room its impressive library, home to 15,000 books with volumes dating back to the 15th century.
the pair sat in chairs that looked far more comfortable for a three-and-a-half hour meeting than the wooden armchairs set out in preparation for the summit last week.
they were seated on either side of a globe of the world, with their respective flags behind them.
journalists were invited in to witness their opening remarks, but all decorum went out the window as the reporters charged into the room.
"the media scuffle was the most chaotic your pooler has seen at a presidential event in nine years.
journalists pushed and shoved, yelling at each other to move but no one did," the white house pool reporter said.
both presidents "appeared amused" by the screaming and yelling.
with the temperatures reaching 32 degrees celsius (98 degrees fahrenheit) outside, mercifully, air conditioning had been installed in the villa to help the presidents keep their cool.
shades and sculpturebiden gave putin a pair of his favourite sunglasses custom aviators made by randolph usa and a crystal sculpture of an american bison.
the summit meant putin missed the entirety of russia's 1-0 win over finland in the euro 2020 football championships.
but when asked afterwards, putin refused to draw comparisons and say what the score was in his encounter with biden.
putin characterised the meeting as a "frank and candid" encounter.
however, "it doesn't necessarily mean that we need to .
.
.
pledge eternal love", he said.
the russian concluded his press conference by saying: "you've got to look around and think to yourself: it's a wonderful world.
"biden struck a more brusque tone, saying: "i did what i came to do.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
yangon: government troops in myanmar have burned most of a village in the country's central heartland, a resident said on wednesday (jun 16), confirming reports by independent media and on social networks.
the action appeared to be an attempt to suppress resistance against the ruling military junta.
the attack is the latest example of how violence has become endemic in much of myanmar in recent months as the junta tries to subdue an incipient nationwide insurrection.
after the army seized power in february, overthrowing the elected government of aung san suu kyi, a non-violent civil disobedience movement arose to challenge military rule, but the junta's attempt to repress it with deadly force fuelled rather than quelled resistance.
photos and videos of devastated kinma village in the magway region that circulated widely on social media on wednesday showed much of the village flattened by fire and the charred bodies of farm animals.
a villager contacted by phone said that only 10 of 237 houses were left standing.
the villager, who asked that his name not be used because of fear of government reprisal, said that most residents had already fled when soldiers firing guns entered the village shortly before noon on tuesday.
he said he believed that the troops were searching for members of a village defence force that had been established to protect against the junta's troops and police.
most such local forces are very lightly armed with homemade hunting rifles.
the village defence force gave residents advance warning of the troops' arrival, so only four or five people were left in the village when they began searching houses in the afternoon.
when they found nothing, they began setting the homes on fire, he said.
"there are some forests just nearby our village.
most of us fled into the forests," he said.
the villager said he believed there were three casualties, a boy who was a goat-herder who was shot in the thigh, and an elderly couple who were unable to flee.
he believed the couple had died but several media reports said they were missing.
asked if he planned to go back to the village, he said: "no, we dare not to.
we think it isn't over.
we will shift to other villages.
even if we go back to our village, there is no place to stay because everything is burnt.
"the village defence forces are committed to forming a future opposition federal army, and some have allied themselves with ethnic minority groups in border areas that have been fighting for decades for autonomy from the central government.
most of the fiercest fighting takes place in the border regions, where government forces are deployed in areas controlled by ethnic groups such as the chin in the west, the kachin in the north and the karenni in the east.
the incident in kinma attracted special attention because the burman, or barmar ethnic group, the country's power-holding majority, is predominant in the magway region and it is unusual for them to be targeted for such severe measures.
the army burned many villages of the muslim rohingya minority in 2017 in a brutal counterinsurgency campaign in the western state of rakhine that drove more than 700,000 to seek safety across the border in bangladesh.
there is widespread prejudice against the rohingya, and few in myanmar protested the army's treatment of them, though international courts are now considering whether it constituted genocide.
some people commenting on wednesday on social media said that the burning of kinma made rohingya claims of mistreatment more credible.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
taipei, june 15 twenty-eight chinese air force aircraft, including fighters and nuclear-capable bombers, entered taiwan's air defence identification zone (adiz) on tuesday (june 15), the island's government said, the largest reported incursion to date.
while there was no immediate comment from beijing, the news comes after the group of seven leaders issued a joint statement on sunday scolding china for a series of issues and underscored the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, comments china condemned as "slander" .
chinese-claimed taiwan has complained over the last few months of repeated missions by china's air force near the self-ruled island, concentrated in the southwestern part of its air defence zone near the taiwan-controlled pratas islands.
the latest chinese mission involved 14 j-16 and six j-11 fighters, as well as four h-6 bombers, which can carry nuclear weapons, and anti-submarine, electronic warfare and early warning aircraft, taiwan's defence ministry said.
[[nid:526703]]it was the largest daily incursion since the ministry began regularly reporting chinese air force activities in taiwan's adiz last year, breaking the previous record of 25 aircraft reported on april 12. the ministry added that taiwanese combat aircraft were dispatched to intercept and warn away the chinese aircraft, while missile systems were also deployed to monitor them.
not only did the chinese aircraft fly in an area close to the pratas islands, but the bombers and some of the fighters flew around the southern part of taiwan close to the bottom tip of the island, according to a map the ministry provided.
china's defence ministry did not respond to a request for comment.
china has in the past described such missions as necessary to protect the country's sovereignty and deal with "collusion" between taipei and washington.
the united states, which like most countries has no formal diplomatic ties with taiwan, has watched with alarm the stepped up tensions with beijing.
[[nid:524615]]"in response to the growing prc threat, we will continue deepening our unofficial security relationship to ensure taiwan has sufficient capabilities to defend itself," a senior u. s.  administration official told reuters, referring to the people's republic of china.
a pentagon spokesperson added that china's "increasing military activities conducted in the vicinity of taiwan are destabilising and increase the risk of miscalculation.
"china describes taiwan as its most sensitive territorial issue and a red line the united states should not cross.
it has never renounced the possible use of force to ensure eventual unification.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singapore's non-oil domestic exports (nodx) grew at a faster rate last month compared with april, aided by electronic and non-electronic shipments such as machinery and chemicals.
nodx rose 8.
8 per cent last month, following a 6 per cent gain in april, continuing the positive growth trend seen since december last year, according to data released by government agency enterprise singapore (esg) on thursday (june 17).
but last month's export growth was less than the 16 per cent growth forecast by analysts polled by bloomberg.
on a month-on-month seasonally adjusted basis, nodx decreased 0.
1 per cent in may, after the previous month's 8.
8 per cent decline.
exports of electronic products rose 11 per cent year on year last month, higher than the 10.
9 per cent growth achieved in april.
shipments of diodes and transistors jumped 53.
9 per cent and telecommunications equipment saw a 52.
3 per cent rise, contributing the most to the growth in electronic nodx.
non-electronic product exports grew 8.
1 per cent from the same month last year.
in april, they were up 4.
7 per cent.
primary chemicals led the non-electronics growth, rising 96.
8 per cent, specialised machinery was up 58 per cent and petrochemicals rose 55.
7 per cent.
mr prakash sakpal, senior economist for asia at ing bank in singapore, said that while nodx growth picked up pace from april, it was still disappointing as it came well below consensus forecasts and his own estimate of 19.
9 per cent.
"the low base effect held year-on-year growth in positive territory.
however, the second consecutive month-on-month fall reflects a possible pause in the export-led recovery as the covid-19 second wave struck the economy via tighter restrictions on activity," he told the straits times.
shipments to singapore's top markets as a whole rose last month.
however, nodx to the united states, japan and the european union declined.
the markets that contributed the most to the rise in nodx were china, up 36.
9 per cent, hong kong, 30.
2 per cent, and malaysia, 27.
1 per cent.
shipments to china still grew at a slower pace than the 55.
5 per cent they saw in april.
export growth also eased for malaysia, from 57.
2 per cent in april.
nodx to emerging markets grew by 41.
4 per cent last month, following the 70.
4 per cent expansion in april.
total trade, on a year-on-year basis, expanded by 30.
9 per cent last month extending a 26.
3 per cent growth in april.
total exports rose by 29.
8 per cent, following april's 26.
6 per cent growth.
total imports grew by 32.
2 per cent, after a 25.
9 per cent increase in april.
last month, official forecasts for singapore's key exports and overall merchandise trade were raised, amid better-than-expected growth seen in the first quarter of this year.
nodx is expected to expand between 1 per cent and 3 per cent for this year, up from 0 per cent to 2 per cent.
total trade is predicted to increase 5 per cent to 7 per cent, higher than the 2 per cent to 4 per cent forecast in february.
nodx rose 9.
7 per cent year on year in the first quarter, driven by increases in both electronics and non-electronics shipments and reversing the 0.
5 per cent decline seen the previous quarter, according to data released by esg on may 25. join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    wednesday, 16 jun 2021
                both wrecks, bearing chinese ceramics as their primary cargo, were found in the waters off pedra branca.
iseas yusof ishak institutesingapore (the straits times/ann): two shipwrecks one dating possibly to the 14th century and the other to the 18th have been excavated within singapore's waters a first for the nation and a groundbreaking development for its maritime heritage.
both wrecks, bearing chinese ceramics as their primary cargo, were found in the waters off pedra branca, a rocky outcrop surrounded by shallow waters where ships throughout history have come to grief.
the plan is to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year.
maritime archaeologist michael flecker, who supervised both excavations, described the first wreck as a "pretty remarkable" find, as it is contemporary with the temasek period that spans the 1300s to 1600s.
while research may never reveal the exact vessel that sank, as no remnants of its hull remain, the second wreck has been identified as the india-built merchant vessel shah munchah.
it sank in 1796 as it was returning to india from china.
how the wrecks were discoveredit all started with an accident.
a singapore-registered barge carrying two bulk loader cranes encountered bad weather while on its way to kuantan and ran aground at pedra branca on dec 30, 2014. the two cranes were at risk of toppling onto pedra branca's famous horsburgh lighthouse, which was built in 1851. to prevent this from happening, dynamite was attached to the two cranes, and they were blown up while two boats pulled them away from the lighthouse, scattering metal into the sea.
commercial divers were then hired to clear the area of these scraps.
it was while diving to retrieve the scraps in 2015 that ramdzan salim, a project manager, and ahmad qamarulhazman, a diver, stumbled across stacks of old ceramic plates, said dr michael flecker, a visiting fellow at the iseas-yusof ishak institute's archaeology unit.
at around the same time, a 10-week-long archaeological dig was being carried out at a site in empress place.
the divers, while following media coverage of the findings, realised that some plates retrieved near pedra branca looked very similar to artefacts retrieved in empress place, and decided to hand over the plates to the institute for further research and safekeeping.
upon the institute's confirmation that the plates were high quality celadon ceramics dated to the 14th century, the national heritage board partnered the institute to conduct a survey at the pedra branca site, discovering a shipwreck in 2016. following the end of excavation works for the first shipwreck, nhb and iseas conducted a survey around pedra branca and uncovered a second shipwreck dating to the late 18th century.
efforts were then made to excavate this shipwreck between 2019 and 2021. the first wreck was located about 100m north-west of the island, the national heritage board (nhb) and iseas announced on wednesday (june 16).
the second wreck was found 300m east of pedra branca.
what was foundin an interview with the straits times about the historic finds, dr flecker said various chinese ceramics formed a large majority of the haul from the first wreck, with some matching those previously excavated in mainland singapore.
for instance, longquan greenware dishes from the first wreck match those that had been unearthed earlier at fort canning, with both bearing a double fish motif.
"from fort canning, there is a plate that is so similar you might almost be tempted to think they used the same stamp (to produce the motif)," said dr flecker, a visiting fellow at iseas.
while research is ongoing, dr flecker said the find would be especially significant if it could be proven that the vessel was going to call at singapore something he believes to be true.
ceramics from the wreck are also similar to those excavated at empress place in 2015, and more research will be done to improve existing knowledge on maritime trading history in the region during the 14th century.
dr flecker, who has about 30 years of maritime archaeology experience, added that the yuan blue-and-white ceramic haul from the first wreck is also the largest that has been recovered from a shipwreck to date.
"there's only been three other (wreck) sites with yuan blue-and-white porcelain anywhere in the world, and in much smaller quantities," he said, adding that it was clear from the primary cargo of both vessels chinese ceramics that they were loaded in china.
the shah munchah wreck site yielded a much wider range of artefacts, from instruments to cannons.
among the surprising finds were percussion instruments, including a tambourine and a coconut shaker with a handle, said dr flecker.
wooden frame parasols, metal betel nut cutters and a myriad of figurines were also retrieved by divers.
the heaviest finds were four anchors as long as 5m and weighing 2.
5 tonnes each and nine cannons, which required a craned vessel to remove them from the seabed.
dr flecker said the anchors were designed in the admiralty style, adding: "they are suitable for very large sailing vessels so it's a good find and it's well worth getting them up for conservation.
"the nine cannons, which dr flecker described as a "representative set" of what was used then, were typically mounted on ships employed by the east india company in the 18th and early 19th centuries, and used for defence as well as signalling.
artefacts are currently being stored at facilities managed by both nhb and iseas, where they will be cleaned, conserved and catalogued.
about the shah munchah, dr flecker said: "had she survived another 23 years, she would almost certainly have called at the re-established port of singapore.
"her incredibly diverse cargo provides great insights into the type of goods that would have been exchanged and purchased by the new inhabitants of this fledgling city.
"the two historical shipwrecks are the first to be found within singapore's waters, and will contribute to a better understanding of the nation's maritime past.
as there were no claims to the wrecks and their artefacts at the end of the stipulated notice period of a month, they have been claimed by singapore.
although it is very likely there are more wrecks on the seabed in singapore's waters, some of these have been covered by reclamation, while heavy maritime traffic in the singapore strait makes locating others a hazard.
nhb's director of heritage research and assessment yeo kirk siang said: "as an island that has been serving as the gateway to asia for centuries, singapore today is the legacy of our rich maritime heritage.
"we will continue to research the significance of the artefacts and find ways to promote the knowledge, so as to enable more people to learn about them and singapore's maritime history.
"nhb plans to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year, while iseas will likely publish findings progressively in reports and research papers.
the straits times/asia news network 
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                shipwreck
                                                                ,
                                                                                                artefacts
                                                                ,
                                                                                                museum
                                                                ,
                                                                                                michael flecker
                                                                ,
                                                                                                shah munchah



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore in 1992, maritime archaeologist michael flecker applied for a licence to survey the waters around pedra branca, an act he described at a public lecture in 2018 as "a little ahead of my time".
he was 24 years early.
in 2016, dr flecker would lead a team to survey waters around the island and their efforts would uncover two historical wrecks by 2019 the first one containing artefacts dating to the 14th century.
at the 2018 public lecture, organised by the singapore maritime heritage interest group and the marine offshore oil and gas association, dr flecker described how the local authorities then "didn't know quite what to do with an application from a private company", for him to carry out a survey around pedra branca, located about 24 nautical miles east of singapore.
ongoing negotiations between singapore and malaysia during that period over which country had sovereignty over pedra branca meant that dr flecker's application was put to the side.
in the meantime, the australian added more than 20 archaeological projects to his resume, including the tang shipwreck near belitung in indonesia, whose artefacts are now displayed at the asian civilisations museum.
the 58-year-old also earned a phd in maritime archaeology from the national university of singapore, and had from 2015 joined the iseas yusof ishak institute as a visiting fellow.
having lived in singapore for almost four decades and participated in more than 30 overseas archaeological projects in the time, dr flecker told the straits times how he felt about finally conducting an excavation in singapore waters.
he said: "it's way beyond any other.
there are others the belitung wreck is a highlight of course.
"but i've been living in singapore for nearly 37 years now, so it's fantastic to be able to work on some groundbreaking project which is directly related to singapore's early heyday the temasek period.
""there are just some places in south-east asia and the south china sea where you can see a rig or rock out in the middle of nowhere, and it's just something that would be worth you spending a lot of time and effort looking because the probability of a wreck being there is very high," he said.
history has proven pedra branca's danger to vessels, he said in his 2018 lecture, listing examples, including the 1796 wreck of the india built merchant vessel, shah munchah, which he would find the following year.
in 1596, dutch merchant john huyghen van linschoten wrote about the rocky island as "where ships that come and go from china do oftentimes pass in great danger and some are left upon it".
hydrographer james horsburgh, whom the 1851-built lighthouse on pedra branca is named after, wrote in 1809 about the shah munchah's demise, reporting that the vessel was "totally lost, by the tide horsing her upon the rock", while changing course.
dr flecker said: "before she could do that, she was just piled onto the rocks by the current.
and the current out there is vicious.
"having waited more than two decades to study the infamous site, dr flecker and his team have left no stone unturned in their surveys since 2016. he told st that his team had conducted a thorough survey in the shallow waters surrounding the island, spanning as far as 500m away from the island, and that it is unlikely more wrecks in those areas would be found.
"we've covered all the areas of the highest wrecking potential, so we've essentially looked everywhere a vessel could strike," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
gaza city: israel carried out air strikes on the gaza strip early on wednesday (jun 16) after militants in the palestinian territory sent incendiary balloons into the south of the country, in the first major conflict between the two sides since a flare-up in may in which hundreds were killed.
the strikes were the first under the new coalition government headed by naftali bennett, whotook over on sundayafter ousting former prime minister benjamin netanyahu.
and they come as more than a thousand ultranationalist demonstrators bearing israeli flags poured into jerusalem's flashpoint old city on tuesday, with scores of police deployed and international monitors urging calm.
according to palestinian sources, israel's air force targeted at least one site east of khan yunis in the south of the gaza strip, which is home to about two million people.
an afp photojournalist in khan yunis saw the explosions.
the israeli defence force said that in response to the "arson balloons", its "fighter jets struck military compounds belonging to the hamas terror organisation".
it added that "facilities and meeting sites for terror operatives" in khan yunis were targeted.
there was no indication of casualties so far.
local firefighters said the incendiary balloons caused around 20 fires in southern israel.
the violence marks the first major flare-up between israel and palestinian militants since a ceasefire came into place in may, ending 11 days of heavy fighting that killed 260 palestinians, according to gaza authorities, and 13 people in israel, the police and army there said.
restraintin annexed east jerusalem, more than one thousand people took to the streets in a delayed and controversial march by nationalist and far-right activists.
the us and un had called for restraint before the march, which bennett's new administration had authorised.
with tensions high, israeli police were deployed in heavy numbers, blocking roads and firing stun grenades and foam-tipped bullets to remove palestinians from the main route.
medics said 33 palestinians were wounded and police said two officers were injured and 17 people arrested.
the demonstration triggered protests in the west bank and gaza strip and prompted rebukes and warnings from israel's allies.
the so-called march of the flags celebrates the anniversary of the city's "reunification" after israel captured east jerusalem from jordan in 1967 and annexed it, a move not recognised by most of the international community.
tuesday's demonstration was originally scheduled for early may but cancelled twice amid police opposition and threats from hamas, the islamist group that controls the palestinian enclave of gaza.
throngs of mostly young religious men sang, danced and waved flags at the damascus gate entrance to the old city that was cleared of its usual palestinian crowds.
some chanted "death to arabs" before others quieted them.
'provocation'the march comes just two days after netanyahu was ousted after 12 straight years in power, toppled by an ideologically divided coalition including, for the first time in israel's history, an arab party.
bennett is himself a jewish nationalist but netanyahu's allies accused the new premier of treachery for allying with arabs and the left.
some demonstrators on tuesday carried signs reading "bennett the liar".
yair lapid, the architect of the new government, tweeted he believed the march had to be allowed but that "it's inconceivable how you can hold an israeli flag and shout, 'death to arabs' at the same time.
"mansour abbas, whose four-seat raam islamic party was vital to the coalition, called tuesday's march a "provocation" that should have been cancelled.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
manchester city kick off the 2021-22 premier league season against tottenham on saturday, august 14. city finished 12 points clear of second-placed manchester united to clinch their fifth title last term, and can lay down a marker for the new campaign by seeing off spurs in north london.
pep guardiola's side will host newly-promoted norwich city seven days later, before they prepare to see out the month with a heavyweight clash against arsenal at etihad stadium.
city have another testing three fixtures to contend with in september, starting with a trip to fa cup winners leicester city, which is followed by a home game against southampton and a trip to european champions chelsea.
liverpool are due to welcome the premier league holders to anfield on october 2, and guardiola will likely already have one eye on the first manchester derby date of the season on november 6. city will begin their december schedule with favourable fixtures against watford, wolves, leeds united and newcastle, but have leicester to deal with once again on boxing day.
the champions are pencilled in for a trip to arsenal on new year's day, and will play host to chelsea 14 days later in what could be a crucial two games in the overall title picture.
tottenham, who are reportedly set to be coached by paulo fonseca, are due to travel to the etihad on february 19, and city will travel to everton seven days later before their second derby meeting with united on march 5. city have another crucial meeting with liverpool scheduled for april 9, and will conclude the season on may 22 with a home game against dean smith's aston villa.
november 6, 2021 is the date of the first manchester derby of the 2021-22 premier league season and it will take place at old trafford.
the etihad stadium will play host to the second manchester derby of the campaign on march 5, 2022.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
the holders, who appear to have a much stronger squad than when they won their first major title five years ago, laboured for long periods in budapest.
but raphael guerreiro made the vital breakthrough in the 84th minute and ronaldo slammed in a penalty shortly afterwards before tapping home in injury time.
"it was essential to start on the right foot in order to gain confidence," said ronaldo.
"now, we have to continue and win the next game.
"the juventus striker has now scored 11 goals in the tournament, two more than french great michel platini, who netted nine times when he led france to glory in 1984. the 36-year-old is also just three goals away from matching iranian ali daei's all-time international scoring record of 109.
"it was a difficult game, against an opponent who defended very well during 90 minutes, but we scored three goals, and i am very grateful to the team for helping me to score two goals," he added.
ronaldo chose by far the biggest crowd of the tournament to break the record in front of, with budapest the only euro 2020 venue not to limit fan capacity due to covid-19.
the puskas arena has a capacity of almost 68,000 fans.
"we didn't deserve a 3-0 defeat, with a bit of luck it could have been a point each, but it was an experience of a lifetime," said hungary goalkeeper peter gulacsi.
world cup winners france and three-time european champions germany meet in the other group f game later in the day at munich's allianz arena.
portugal coach fernando santos opted to play liverpool forward diogo jota and bernardo silva alongside ronaldo, with joao felix left on the bench.
it almost paid instant dividends, as jota forced gulacsi into a smart save with a left-footed drive in the fourth minute, although he perhaps should have squared the ball for an unmarked ronaldo.
the portuguese talisman created an opportunity for bernardo silva in the 28th minute by winning the ball back high up the pitch, only for the manchester city winger to delay his shot too long and see the opening snuffed out by an excellent tackle from hungary centre-back willi orban.
hungary offered very little from open play, although they sent portugal a warning shortly before half-time when adam szalai headed a free-kick too close to rui patricio.
ronaldo misses glorious chance -the best chance of the opening period fell to ronaldo in the 44th minute, only for the portugal captain to plant the ball over from six yards out after meeting guerreiro's low cross.
portugal came out of the blocks quickly after the break, knowing failure to win would put them in trouble in such a difficult group, with pepe seeing a downward header well saved by the stretching gulacsi.
santos' men continued to press despite hungary growing in confidence, with bruno fernandes drawing gulacsi into another fine stop with a dipping strike from long range.
despite having felix, in-form eintracht frankfurt striker andre silva and pedro goncalves, last season's top scorer in the portuguese league, on the bench, santos waited until the 71st minute to make a change, sending on rafa silva for bernardo silva.
hungary thought they had snatched a shock lead through substitute szabolcs schon, but he was denied by the offside flag.
rafa silva played a key role in the opening goal, though, as his deflected cross was met by guerreiro, whose shot also took a huge deflection and dribbled agonisingly into the corner of the hungarian net.
the home side's resistance was totally over three minutes later, as orban pulled back rafa silva clean through on goal.
ronaldo made no mistake, sending gulacsi the wrong way to add another record to his collection on the day he became the first player in history to play at five european championships.
there was more to come from ronaldo, as he danced through after a one-two with rafa silva and rolled in his 106th goal for portugal.
jc/asbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
us carrier southwest airlines was ramping operations back up tuesday after canceling some 500 flights following a second major outage in 24 hours due to computer issues.
a 28-year-old man was arrested over a fight in hougang that left another man injured.
in response to a stomp query, the police said they were alerted to a case of voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon at block 702 hougang avenue 2 on june 9, at 12.
16am.
"a 30-year-old man was conscious when taken to hospital," they added.
"a 28-year-old man was arrested in relation to the case.
"stomp contributor randy shared photos of the incident that were posted on  facebook  .
according to  shin min daily news  , the altercation occurred at a carpark, near a void deck where a funeral wake was taking place.
[embed]https://www.
facebook.
com/singaporebreakingnews/posts/4088332411245996[/embed]residents reported hearing the two men, who are acquainted, in a loud argument.
the suspect had allegedly rushed into the void deck and asked the mourning family if he could 'borrow' a pair of scissors that was on a table.
[[nid:532882]]despite their refusal, the suspect took the scissors and went back to the carpark, where the stabbing took place.
police were then called.
a resident in the vicinity, ms li, said that the assailant continued to rain blows on his victim, who had fallen to the ground.
the suspect was seen picking up a bamboo pole and waving it in the middle of the road before he fled, reported shin min.
he was subsequently arrested after the police traced his whereabouts.
police investigations are ongoing.
singapore: singaporean dickson yeo was detained under the internal security act (isa) on jan 29 for acting as a paid agent for a "foreign state", the internal security department (isd) said on tuesday (jun 15).
while isd did not name the foreign state, yeo, 40, was last year sentenced to 14 months' prison in the us for spying for china against the us.
isdarrested yeo after he was deported to singaporeon dec 30 last year after he served his sentence.
it interviewed him to establish if he had engaged in activities prejudicial to singapore's security.
the department said on tuesday that yeo carried out intelligence activities against singapore from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019.  he was tasked to source for information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
"towards this end, he had approached various individuals in singapore in an attempt to obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports," isd said.
yeo also set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
he also tried, but failed, to get a job in the singapore government.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's "continued detention is necessary to facilitate probes into the full extent of his activities".
yeo was jailed in the us on oct 9 last year after admitting to operating illegally as a foreign agent, which can bring up to 10 years in prison.
he was given a relatively light sentence and credited for 11 months already spent in prison because of his cooperation with us authorities and the threat of contracting covid-19 in jail, a us federal judge said then.
in his plea, yeo admitted to working between 2015 and 2019 for chinese intelligence, spotting and assessing americans with access to "valuable non-public information".
they included a civilian working on the us air force's f-35b stealth fighter project, a pentagon army officer with afghanistan experience, and a state department official, all of whom were paid as much as us$2,000 to write reports for yeo.
yeo told these people that the reports were for clients in asia, without revealing that they were in fact for the chinese government.
yeo also told us investigators that his previous intelligence work targeted other asian countries before focusing on the us.
mha said on jul 26 last year that its investigations into yeo's activities did not reveal any direct threat to singapore's security.
recruited while studying at lkysppyeo was recruited by chinese intelligence operatives while studying for a phd at the national university of singapore's lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) in 2015, according to us court documents.
he went on to work for the chinese after he visited beijing to give a presentation on politics.
former top singapore diplomat bilahari kausikan said that yeo's phd supervisor at lkyspp was huang jing.
the professor was identified in 2017 as an "agent of influence for a foreign country" by singapore's ministry of home affairs (mha).
without naming the country, mha said huang "knowingly interacted with intelligence organisations and agents of the foreign country, and cooperated with them to influence the singapore government's foreign policy and public opinion in singapore".
huang gave what he claimed was "privileged information" about the foreign country to prominent and influential singaporeans, including a senior member of lkyspp, with the aim of influencing their opinions in favour of that country, mha said.
huang was permanently banned from singapore and had his permanent residency status revoked, mha said.
huang left singapore in 2017. lkyspp told cna on tuesday evening that it has strengthened "oversight and risk-awareness procedures" in relation to its education and research.
"we maintain an enhanced oversight on academic collaborations and partnerships, both local and overseas, and will also continue to keep a heightened awareness among all our staff and students on the risks of foreign interference," a spokesperson said.
the past incidents involving a former staff member and student showed how different sectors of society, including education, could be potential targets for "foreign subversion", the spokesperson added.
"the school will not tolerate any acts or activities of foreign interference that threaten the country's national security or interests.
"on tuesday, isd said the singapore government takes a "very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government".
this includes those who engage in activities at the behest of the foreign power that may harm singapore's national security and interests, including bilateral relations, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a landlord who kept exposing himself to a female tenant was jailed for 11 weeks and fined $2,000 on tuesday (15 june) after he was found guilty of all six related charges.
over about seven months, the victim would turn around to catch 56-year-old chan eng hui in the buff while he made eye contact with her.
chan, who has been dealt with for previous incidents of indecent exposure in 2009 and 2010, was found guilty of four charges of insulting the modesty of a woman and two of using criminal force on her.
the victim's age and nationality was not revealed in court.
she cannot be named to protect her identity.
the victim moved into the flat on 1 april 2018, renting a bed space from him for $250 a month.
she moved out in january 2019.  initially, the victim said she was on "talking terms" with chan, but stopped talking to him after a female tenant informed her that chan had appeared naked in her room.
between 10 and 12 may 2018 while both were in the flat, chan held her hand and said "go, go, let's just go eat.
"she rejected him and said "you can just talk and not get touchy", before going into her room.
she did not consent to the touch and felt annoyed by what she perceived to be a disrespectful act.
in the same period, chan grabbed her as she walked past a sofa in the living room, in an attempt to pull her in his direction.
in response, the victim flung his hand away and told him not to get touchy before entering her room.
from end-june to mid-july 2018, while both were in the flat at around 6.
30am, the victim was walking out of the kitchen when she saw chan standing inside the toilet naked with the door open.
he was touching his private parts as he made eye contact with her.
even as the victim asked him what he was doing, chan continued touching his private parts.
chan's wife had been sleeping then.
from the moment chan began exposing himself to her, the victim would use weapons to protect herself and lock the door before sleeping.
a few days later, in the evening, while the victim was washing something in the kitchen, she turned around to see chan naked again, standing in front of the washing machine.
after they made eye contact, chan smiled and said he wanted to shower in the toilet.
furious, the victim scolded him.
the same act happened between september and october, while the victim was at the kitchen wash basin, prompting the victim to throw a bowl towards him.
between 1 august and 20 september 2018, at around 6.
30am, the victim was leaving the flat when she turned around to see chan naked.
the victim then shouted at him, "you pervert.
you like.
.
.
you enjoy letting people see, is it?
then you should let everyone take a look at you.
"two audio recordings recorded by the victim and submitted to court captured an exchange between chan and the victim.
in one recording, the victim says, "why did you don't wear your pant when you appeared behind me suddenly?"
chan is heard replying, "you have not agreed to me for so long.
you see that fish, you think i can control myself.
when you don't give the fish to the cat, what do you think it will feel?
i am a man, you think i am made of wood, is it?
you don't have feeling, but i am a man, i have feeling?
"after 30 december 2018, chan changed the lock of her bedroom door so that the victim was unable to lock the door.
the woman would then use a chair to block the door.
in his defence, chan claimed that he was wearing his shorts at all times.
the victim eventually reported the matter to the police on 23 december 2018.  when asked why she did not do so earlier, she said that she worried it would be troublesome as she was working here, and was concerned that the incident would affect her work permit.
in finding chan guilty, district judge lau qiuyu described him as "evasive" and his evidence "externally inconsistent".
while chan initially argued that he was in a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship with the victim, he later claimed that they were just friends and he found acts of intimacy repulsive.
dj lau added that she was unable to accept his claim that he did not intentionally expose himself to the woman.
chan had claimed that the exposure was accidental as the wind had blown open the toilet door while he was urinating.
for another incident, chan claimed that he had slipped on washing powder and that he hit himself, causing him to stroke his private parts in pain.
when asked for his mitigation, chan said he had nothing to say.
he told the court that he was unable to pay the fine.
he will serve two weeks' jail in default of the fine.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:of 25 new covid cases in singapore, 19 local including 1 dorm residentman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022polestar, the premium electric vehicle maker owned by china's geely and volvo cars, will build its polestar 3 electric suv at volvo's u. s.  plant in south carolina starting in the second half of 2022, the brand's chief executive said.
the volvo plant in ridgeville, south carolina, near charleston, currently builds the volvo s60 sedan and will add the volvo xc90 suv in 2022, polestar said on wednesday.
top news and what to watch in the markets on wednesday, june 16, 2021. have you considered how you'll withdraw your retirement income?
these simple mistakes could cost you thousands of dollars.
sterling scored in sunday's 1-0 win over croatia as england began the euros with a victory for the first time in nine attempts.
the manchester city forward, who was at the weekend awarded an mbe for his services to racial equality in sport, said meditation helped him feel relaxed.
"i'm doing a little bit of meds," sterling told british media.
finding the 'perfect' summer dress is no mean feat.
a malaysian court wednesday overturned an inquest verdict of "misadventure" in the death of a french-irish teen who vanished in the jungle, replacing it with an "open" ruling in a victory for her family.
today's mortgage refi rates at 1.
77% fixed no hidden points or fees!
1.
97% apr.
cut your payment while rates are still low.
mcdonald's had also "sweeten the experience" by offering the bts meal "at a special price of s$8.
90", which is said to be 10% off the usual delivery price.
the countess of wessex said the grieving process will be longer because of coronavirus.
paris-based sales and co-production company charades has closed deals for all major western territories on "belle," the anticipated animation feature from oscar-nominated japanese filmmaker mamoru hosoda ("mirai") and studio chizu.
following gkids's pick up for north american rights, charades has unveiled a raft of sales to high-profile international distributors for "belle," including anime limited in [.
.
.
]over 55?
you may want to start packing your bags for senior apartments near you.
look for local senior apartments.
tributes have poured in for the movie startreatments that target the reflex could ward off the spread of infections.
big engines might one day seem old fashioned at general motors, as it boosts spending on electric and autonomous vehicles to $35 billion through 2025. that's according to reuters sources.
the move would mark a 30% jump over gm's most recent forecast, as it continues to pursue ev leadership.
as part of that spending, the top u. s.  automaker will build two additional battery plants in the country.
in november, gm upped its spending plans from $20 billion, a figure that was announced in march before the global health crisis shuttered the auto industry.
the expected announcement comes less than a month after rival ford upped its ev spending by more than a third to over $30 billion by 2030. gm chief executive mary barra will meet nancy pelosi and other key democrats on wednesday (june 16), when they're expected to discuss evs and vehicle emissions.
working with washington is critical as president joe biden has proposed spending $174 billion to boost evs and charging as part of his extensive infrastructure plan.
gm declined to comment on the latest reports.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than evercristiano ronaldo is a match-winner, france are better than germany and spain can pass the ball all day without scoring -- there really haven't many surprises after the first round of matches in euro 2020.   it is perhaps inevitable that we aren't instantly surprised by much in international football these days.
belgium are one of the tournament favourites and confirmed that with a confident 3-0 win in st petersburg against russia -- achieved without their key midfielder kevin de bruyne.
two centuries-old shipwrecks packed with ceramics and other artefacts have been found off singapore in a rare discovery that will shed light on the city-state's maritime heritage, archaeologists said wednesday.
post-brexit trading arrangements for northern ireland are not a threat to the territorial integrity of the united kingdom but simply a means of managing disruption from its exit from the european union, ireland's foreign minister said on tuesday.
"it's not about constitutional matters," he said in response to comments by britain's brexit minister david frost at a parliamentary committee.
takes 2 minutes to get stated and se what rate you qualify for.
savings are astonishing!
(1.
97% apr)exeter were handed a huge blow ahead of saturday's premiership semi-final against sale sharks after forwards sam skinner and dave ewers were given four-week bans by an independent disciplinary panel on tuesday night.
skinner was sent off in the 53rd minute of last weekend's 20-19 win over sale for a dangerous tackle, while ewers was sin-binned for a high hit on simon hammersley in the 33rd minute of the same match.
both players contested the charges against them but they were upheld by the independent panel, the rfu said on wednesday.
post-brexit trading arrangements for northern ireland are not a threat to the territorial integrity of the united kingdom but simply a means of managing disruption from its exit from the european union, ireland's foreign minister said on tuesday.
"it's not about constitutional matters," he said in response to comments by britain's brexit minister david frost at a parliamentary committee.
most women aren't aware that abnormal bleeding can be a sign of cancer.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
fisherman antonio zapata told reuters that even though hunts by orcas are relatively common where he and his crew operate, he had never before in his four decades at sea experienced anything similar.
while sympathetic to the plight of the sea lions, whose predators circled meters away, thrashing their tails before moving in to grab at their prey, zapata said his boat was already low in the water with a full haul of sardines.
mobile phone footage shows the water around the boat jammed with thrashing sea lions.
although the 10-man crew can be heard joking about their predicament, zapata said they were genuinely concerned the boat would be damaged or they could end up in the water too.
they tried to approach a nearby island in the hope the sea lions could take refuge there instead, but the whales blocked them from nearing the shore.
the boat crept towards talcahuano port, near the city of concepcion in bio bio province.
the whales drifted away, leaving the surviving sea lions to swim for cover.
you can also save big on a whitening pen and refills.
reviving the 2015 iran nuclear accord will have to await the formation of a new iranian government, the head of the u. n.  nuclear watchdog said in remarks published on wednesday, adding a deal needed political will from all parties.
"everyone knows that, at this point, it will be necessary to wait for the new iranian government," rafael grossi said in an interview with italian daily la repubblica, in reply to a question about what stage negotiations on the deal were at.
grossi, director-general of the international atomic energy agency (iaea), appeared to be referring to iran's presidential elections, due on friday.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
london (reuters) covid-19 vaccines made by pfizer and astrazeneca offer high protection of more than 90 per cent against hospitalisation from the delta coronavirus variant, a new analysis by public health england (phe) showed on monday (june 14).
british prime minister boris johnson announced on monday a delay to the lifting of covid-19 restrictions in england due to the spread of the highly transmissible delta variant of concern, first identified in india, which is also associated with a higher risk of hospitalisation among the unvaccinated.
phe said that the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine was 96 per cent effective against hospitalisation from the delta variant after two doses, while oxford-astrazeneca's offered 92 per cent protection against hospitalisation by delta.
phe said that those levels of protection were comparable to that against the alpha variant, first identified in kent, south-east england.
the analysis adds to evidence that although the delta variant reduces the effectiveness of vaccines against symptomatic infection, two doses of a covid-19 vaccine still protect against severe disease.
"these hugely important findings confirm that the vaccines offer significant protection against hospitalisation from the delta variant," said ms mary ramsay, head of immunisation at phe.
the phe findings follow a scottish study which showed that two doses of a covid-19 vaccine among people who tested positive cut their risk of hospitalisation by 70 per cent, although there were not enough hospital admissions reported to compare the vaccines.
phe said that while further work was being undertaken to establish the level of protection against mortality from the delta variant, levels of protection against death were expected to be high.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the two large-scale inoculation centres run by the self-defense forces will open to younger people across japannhk has confirmed that japan's mass vaccination centres will open to residents aged 18 to 64 on june 17.  the mass inoculation centres in osaka and tokyo were set up last month to accelerate the covid-19 vaccine rollout for seniors and medical workers.
they can inoculate up to 5,000 and 10,000 people per day respectively.
the government is aiming to complete vaccination for all seniors aged 65 and older by the end of july, but with vaccine rollout gaining momentum, roughly 60 percent of the centres' booking slots though june 27 remain open.
to fill some of the vacancies, the two centres opened to police officers and other emergency workers on monday – and will now expand eligibility to the general public from thursday june 17. reservations can be made online from midnight on june 16 or via telephone from 7am the same day.
phone services are available in english as well as japanese.
residents of any prefecture are eligible for vaccination at either one of these large-scale centres in tokyo and osaka as long as they have received the vaccination coupon distributed by their local municipality.
you can read up on the details, check available slots and reserve your vaccine through the ministry of defense website.
note that the mass vaccination centres operated by the self-defense forces only offer the moderna vaccine.
this article was originally published on april 21 at 2.
42pm and updated at 7.
50pm.
more from time outhere's the tentative timeline of japan's covid-19 vaccination programmejapan is reportedly looking to implement vaccine passports this summermint chocolate is trending in tokyo right nowjapan considers placing tokyo under quasi-emergency during the olympicstokyo is the fourth most livable city in the world in 2021want to be the first to know what's cool in tokyo?
sign up to our newsletter for the latest updates from tokyo and japan.
share the storylatest newspopular on time outfollow usabout ustime out tokyotime out products
covid-19 cases have fallen far below the winter peak, but the delta variant has roughly doubled every two weeks in the uslast modified on wed 16 jun 2021 03.
01 edtscientists in the united states are anxiously watching the delta variant of covid-19, as it spreads through an unevenly vaccinated american public and an economy that is rapidly reopening.
the delta variant, first identified as b.
1.
617.
2 in india, is believed to be more transmissible than both the original strain of covid-19 and the alpha strain, first identified in the united kingdom.
"we've moved [delta] to the top of our list of variants to study," said andrew pekosz, a professor in johns hopkins university's molecular microbiology and immunology department, and an expert in how viruses interact with the respiratory system.
"the data out of the uk showing how quickly the delta variant became the dominant variant there is strong evidence that it is more transmissible than the alpha variant, which we already thought was more transmissible than the original lineages," said pekosz.
the delta variant is spreading at an uncertain time in the us.
covid-19 cases have fallen far below the winter peak, from an average of more than 250,000 new diagnoses a day in january to about 14,000 a day in june.
fewer cases have coincided with fewer hospitalizations and deaths.
this has led state after state to lift all social distancing guidelines, including in california, which gave the greenlight to large indoor gatherings such as sporting events.
now, social distancing and mask requirements are largely operating on the honor system.
but, even as pandemic guidelines recede, delta has roughly doubled every two weeks in the us, a pattern once followed by alpha, the variant first discovered in the uk, which eventually came to represent the vast majority of new us infections.
the delta variant has also delayed the uk's planned reopening.
according to the cdc, at the end of may alpha represented almost 70% of infections in the us.
but in mid-march, it represented only 26% of cases.
similarly, delta once represented only 2.
5% of cases of covid-19 by mid-may.
but two weeks prior to that, it represented only 1.
3% of cases.
again, two weeks before that in april, it represented just 0.
6% of cases.
the doubling of cases has led some, such as the former food and drug administration (fda) commissioner dr scott gottlieb, to predict that delta may represent as much as 10% of us cases by mid-june.
the cdc officially elevated delta to a "variant of concern" this week.
a "variant of concern" designation puts delta in the same category of increased surveillance as alpha and gamma (the variant first identified in brazil).
the most serious designation for new strains are considered variants of "high consequence".
this designation implies significantly reduced vaccine efficacy, testing failures and more severe disease.
no variants circulating in the us meet this designation.
part of scientists' concern with the delta variant is that a more transmissible virus can make social distancing less successful.
there are also concerns about severe localized outbreaks in an unevenly vaccinated nation.
the us has fully vaccinated 43.
9% of the population and 52.
6% have received at least one dose, according to the cdc.
however, those rates vary regionally.
large swaths of the south have fully vaccinated less than 35% of their populations, such as in alabama, louisiana and tennessee.
by contrast, much of the north-east has fully vaccinated more than 50% of its population, including in vermont, maine, massachusetts, rhode island and new hampshire.
vaccination rates also vary dramatically by age.
in the south, less than 10% of adolescents are vaccinated, in spite of being eligible for weeks, said dr peter hotez, a vaccine researcher and the dean of the national school of tropical medicine at baylor college.
"i've been saying [the] delta variant could rip through the south this summer, in which case [it] could hit unvaccinated young people pretty hard," hotez said on twitter.
those lower rates are, in part, tied to political polarization.
donald trump's followers listened as he blasted public health measures and workers during his tenure in the white house.
now, white evangelicals, republicans and people in rural america – all disproportionately likely to identify with trump – rank among the most likely to say they will "definitely not" get a vaccine.
but lower vaccination rates in some states are also the result of weaker public health infrastructure.
people who have put off vaccines, but who are not necessarily opposed to getting one, reported they would be more likely to get a shot if they had time off work, transportation or their state provided financial incentives, kaiser family foundation found.
further, it remains unclear whether delta will result in more serious disease.
a recent lancet study in scotland found people were twice as likely to be hospitalized by what was believed to be the delta variant compared to the alpha variant.
however, the cdc has not said delta produced more serious outcomes, and pekosz said he believed it was too early to say whether delta resulted in more hospitalizations.
what was reinforced by the lancet study is that vaccines remain effective against delta.
the mrna vaccine from pfizer offered "very good" protection.
a vaccine from astrazeneca had "substantial but reduced" efficacy against delta.
astrazeneca's vaccine uses a different technology, called viral vector, to induce an immune response.
in the time it takes more americans to be fully vaccinated, roughly five to six weeks, the delta variant "will be the majority of us cases," dr cyrus shahpar, an epidemiologist and covid-19 data director at the white house, said on twitter.
it is, "important to start building protection now".
in turn, america's uneven vaccination status illustrates another, long-term problem – unvaccinated people may put pressure on the virus to evolve again.
people "who are vaccinated and people who are not vaccinated, the virus could be moving back and forth between those populations," pekosz said.
in turn, the virus could be evolving to, "get around some of the immunity that is out there in the population".
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington (afp) a new antibody testing study published on tuesday (june 15) has found further evidence that the coronavirus was present in the united states from at least december 2019, weeks before the first confirmed case was announced on jan 21. the national institutes of health study analysed 24,000 stored blood samples contributed by volunteers across the country from jan 2 to march 18, 2020. antibodies against the sars-cov-2 virus were detected via two different serology tests in nine patient samples, according to the paper, which was published in the journal clinical infectious diseases.
the participants were outside the major hotspots of seattle and new york city, thought to be the key entry points of the virus to the united states.
the first positive samples came from participants in illinois and massachusetts on jan 7 and 8, 2020, respectively, suggesting that the virus was present in those states in late december.
"antibody testing of blood samples helps us better understand the spread of sars-cov-2 in the us in the early days of the us epidemic, when testing was restricted," said lead author keri althoff, an associate professor of epidemiology at the johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health.
the research builds on a similar investigation published by the centres for disease control and prevention last november that reached the same conclusion.
but since there are uncertainties surrounding serology testing, further confirmation builds extra confidence in the finding.
to help minimise the possibility of false positives, the team used two separate tests on each sample, searching for antibodies that bind to different parts of the virus.
the types of antibodies they were looking for are called immunoglobulin g, or igg, which "neutralise" the virus' ability to invade cells and do not appear until two weeks after a person has been infected.
it therefore follows that study participants with these samples were exposed to the virus at least several weeks earlier.
limitations include that the number of samples taken from many states was low just a few dozen or hundred, the authors also do not know whether the participants became infected during travel, or within their own communities, and would like to see their work confirmed in further study.
finally, there is a possibility that the antibodies they detected were formed against infection to other coronaviruses, such as the four that cause common colds.
but since other research has shown that "cross-reactivity" between these coronaviruses is low, the team estimated that the probability all nine samples were false positives was one in 100,000. the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, according to figures from johns hopkins university.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    wednesday, 16 jun 2021
                kuala lumpur (afp): a malaysian court will rule wednesday (june 16) on a challenge by the family of a french-irish teenager over an inquest verdict that she died by misadventure after vanishing in the jungle.
the body of nora anne quoirin (pic), a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and are seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan is expected to hand down his ruling at 5pm (0900 gmt) at the high court in seremban via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
"the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents," she said.
malaysian police have stuck to their version of events that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
afp 
tags / keywords:
courts
                                                                ,
                                                                                                seremban
                                                                ,
                                                                                                nora anne quoirin
                                                                ,
                                                                                                decision
                                                                ,
                                                                                                inquest ruling
                                                                ,
                                                                                                open verdict
                                                                ,
                                                                                                french-irish teenager



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
by steve almasy, laura ly, holly yan and madeline holcombe, cnnupdated 7:03 pm et, tue june 15, 2021  (cnn)tuesday brought reopenings in two of the largest states, with new york reaching an important vaccine milestone and joining california in dropping most of its covid-19 restrictions.
interactive: tracking covid-19 vaccinations in the uscnn's arman azad, maggie fox, naomi thomas, sarah dean, jen christensen, virginia langmaid and cheri mossburg contributed to this report.
playwright alfian sa'at on tuesday night (15 june) questioned what appears to be the people's association (pa)'s selective quoting of communications specialist sarah bagharib's remarks in an interview with nanyang technological university professor walid j.  abdullah on the hari raya standee fiasco.
pa had used ms sarah's wedding photograph as a prop in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru.
while the standee was subsequently removed and the pa offered her a public apology, the organisation later said it rejects ms sarah's "accusations" of racism, branding the incident "culturally insensitive" and an "isolated case".
posting on facebook on monday, pa referenced her interview with assistant professor walid, claiming that ms sarah mentioned that the incident has perpetuated a culture of racism.
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said pa. the organisation claimed that it had explained to ms sarah that while it acknowledges that its staff "should have been more culturally sensitive", it is not right to paint "sweeping conclusions from this incident".
doubling down on its point that ms sarah's case was an isolated one, pa said that it finds ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting an "odd" one.
"we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," said pa, adding that it is of the view that ms sarah's purpose in agreeing to meet its representatives "has gone far beyond the radin mas incident".
pa said that it will not be following through with the meeting as there is "no point" in doing so, in light of the above.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters.
we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures," it added.
pa also claimed that ms sarah's 1 june email had falsely alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," it said.
"it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself," pa added.
the short length of the quotes attached by pa in its follow-up post, said mr alfian, had aroused his suspicion, as "to build a case against someone it is always important to be able to reproduce what they said in full".
"scanning through pa's statement, one would be forgiven if one thought that ms sarah was the one who made the claim that what pa did "perpetuate[d] [a] racist culture".
but she was actually sharing something someone else had written," he noted.
ms sarah had in fact quoted a female chinese clinical psychologist's comment, who wrote:"this whole thread is written with much labour, can we chinese singaporeans please appreciate the labour and educate ourselves on our conditioned racism?
it's long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance–which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them.
"the comment in itself did not state that the act of putting up the offending decorations in itself had perpetuated a culture of racism — rather, it is the cultural ignorance in the process of doing so that is racist, said mr alfian.
ms sarah, he added, did not directly make remarks such as "this racist incident" or "and other similar racist incidents" in the interview.
instead, she said:"allyship plays a big part in promoting true racial harmony–one that goes beyond "racial tolerance".
i am so, so grateful to allies who have used their voices to stand in solidarity with razif and i, and ethnic minority communities, in the aftermath of this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed).
""i think ms sarah has been at pains to assert that all singaporeans, and not just minorities, are stakeholders in the issue.
hers isn't some kind of minority grievance whose aim is to indict an entire majority community," said mr alfian.
referencing pa's claim that its error was not born out of racism, but rather out of "cultural insensitivity", the playwright said that the model of "racial harmony" that the organisation has been operating on "would not recognise that something is racist unless it "disrupts" harmony".
"of course the people at pa would want to distance themselves from "obvious" racists like beow tan, tan boon lee and the gong lady," he said, adding that pleading "cultural insensitivity" is a way of justifying "racism that is not tantamount to public nuisance".
addressing pa's claim that ms sarah had spoken about its "staff and volunteers" being "blind to racism", mr alfian said that he could not find the alleged statement anywhere in the whole interview.
"what i found instead was this, 9 minutes from the end.
walid jokes with her about whether she'd have a teh tarik with melvin yong (the mp on the banner)," he said.
quoting ms sarah:"there was a light-up event, at tiong bahru arcade, where the standee was as well, and i wonder if he saw it?
there was a light up hari raya event, at that very stage.
with his face, and the kampung thing, coconut tree and all of it.
so i wondered if he saw the standee, what he thought about it.
if he did, and he didn't say anything, or think twice, to think that something was wrong about it.
if i had teh tarik with him then i'd like to know if he did see that.
and if he did, and he didn't say anything about it, then something is definitely wrong, right?while there was a comment on internalised racism — on how "we've been so conditioned to think in a certain way.
.
.
that there's nothing wrong with this because people are colour blind, or blind to racism at play.
or there's nothing wrong, because it doesn't impact them" — mr alfian noted that there was "no mention of pa staff or volunteers".
"it's a stretch, but maybe she was questioning whether the mp had noticed that something was wrong–and it's important to underline that these are questions, not accusations," he said.
the playwright questioned whether much of the supposed efforts on those who speak of "racial harmony" are mostly concentrated on the "in progress" part than in doing "the actual work".
"because for me, one of the most important work is dialogue–real dialogue with those on the other side of the aisle, not stage-managed ones of vetted questions and screened guest lists.
i dream of the day when pa can have a dialogue with ms sarah, or when zaobao editors can have one with the scholars who wrote in to them on their coverage of racial issues.
it's a dream that's entirely within reach," he said.
professor walid, in his comment on mr alfian's post, highlighted that ms sarah was "responding to a comment" left by a viewer during the livestream "when she talked about internalised racism".
"because ig live does not save comments, and we were taking many comments, we do not even know what that specific comment refers to," he added.
other commenters remarked that pa staff involved in the saga "need to take a critical reading class" and that by "unilaterally cancelling a planned meeting" with ms sarah, the organisation is "essentially indicating that they do not want to do the hard work of authentic dialogue".
one of the "smear campaigns constructed out of selective quotations" referred to by mr alfian in his post earlier include pro-establishment factions such as facebook page singapore matters citing his social media post from 2012, in which mr alfian had reportedly told today that he "would love to become a malaysian".
in june last year, mr alfian also had to issue a refutation against the "pro-malaysia activist" narrative made against him.
among the points made by mr alfian include his past criticism in 2014 on how the bumiputera policy "has been hijacked and corrupted" by "umnoputras" through "cronyism, nepotism and corruption".
"of all the accusations in that post, this one is the most obviously defamatory.
i had to comb through all my posts to see what i had written about 'bumiputera policies'.
and there's not a single post that mentions endorsement of the policy, nor my wish for it to be implemented in singapore.
if anything, there is awareness of how it has been hijacked and corrupted," he wrote.
touching on the claim that he had "mocked" singapore's approach in the maritime dispute with malaysia in 2019 as "jingoism", mr alfian clarified that his comments expressed his "dovish" anxiety over military escalation in the johor straits at the time.
"i expect our elected officials to exhaust all diplomatic channels for solutions rather than to rely on 'jingoism'—extreme nationalism, in the form of aggressive or warlike foreign policy," he wrote.
in his commentary on his poem "singapore you are not my country", mr alfian highlighted that then-education minister ong ye kung did not quote the poem in full when the latter cited it in parliament in october 2019. in delivering his speech on the cancellation of a yale-nus programme which mr alfian was initially invited to run, mr ong quoted part of mr alfian's poem "singapore you are not my country", which was written in 1998, to give parliament "a flavour" of the literary figure's "thinking".
mr ong said:"singapore, i assert you are not a country at all,
do not raise your voice against me, i am not afraid of your anthem"later part of the poem says:".
.
.
how can you call yourself a country,
you terrible hallucination of highways and cranes and condominiums
ten minutes' drive from the mrt?
""this is a poem, and we might concede some artistic licence.
but mr alfian sa'at continues this attitude consistently in his activism.
"mr alfian in a facebook post later clarified that the line quoted by mr ong, when placed in context, appears as seen below:do not raise your voice against me,
i am not afraid of your anthem
although the lyrics are still bleeding from
the bark of my sapless heart.
mr alfian elaborated that the context in which the line "i am not afraid of your anthem" appears describes the anthem's presence in his upbringing as a singaporean and how it "bleeds from my heart".
contrary to what the line appears to suggest on the surface, 'i am not afraid of your anthem' actually reveals the fear of vulnerability and of having the anthem "rouse patriotic feelings in me", he added.
"i am afraid of this patriotic love because it is so involuntarily, it comes from a primordial and irresistible place from deep inside," said mr alfian.
"i am afraid of these volcanic feelings because i want to protect myself from loving something too much.
""just stopping on the word 'anthem' might suggest that i am somehow rejecting symbols of the state," he said.
the aforementioned yale-nus programme, which was renamed "dialogue and dissent in singapore", was originally set to take place from 29 september to 5 october in 2019. contrary to the allegations made in a yale report on the cancellation, which he said painted him as "defiant and intransigent", mr alfian said that he was open to removing certain elements from the original programme itinerary and substituting such elements with others, in light of sensitivities arising from contemporary developments at the time.
an example of such, according to mr alfian, included removing the screening of a documentary on hong kong civil rights activist joshua wong after a yale-nus representative – who he addressed as "person d" – on 11 sep raised concerns pertaining to the ongoing protests in the city.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore at least one retail worker at ion orchard was injured after a glass panel shattered on the first day of the mall's reopening on wednesday (june 16).
the man, who was wearing a staff lanyard from make-up brand bobbi brown, had cuts on his arms.
three singapore civil defence force (scdf) officers were seen arriving at the scene at around 11.
20am.
blood splatter on the floor could be seen among the shattered glass.
responding to queries from the straits times, a spokesman for ion orchard said a single glass panel at the bobbi brown store shattered at around 11am.
"the incident occurred when the store was being opened for the day by its store assistant," said the spokesman.
the store assistant suffered some cuts and first-aid was immediately rendered by ion staff.
"we are in touch with the bobbi brown staff and the management, and will render additional support to them as necessary," the spokesman added.
a spokesman for scdf said that it received a call for assistance at ion orchard at about 11.
10am, and later took a person to the singapore general hospital.
before the incident, retail staff at ion orchard were seen busy tidying up their wares and preparing their storefronts in anticipation of shoppers returning after a four-day closure for deep cleaning and disinfection.
the mall was ordered to close from last saturday to tuesday by the ministry of health, after a number of covid-19 cases were linked to it.
on wednesday, the mall, which has 400 retailers, reopened its doors at 10am.
at some stores, staff were seen dusting their display shelves and racks.
but not all stores were ready to welcome customers by 11am.
british luxury fashion house burberry and japanese department store muji were among those that remained shuttered.
in a circular to tenants on wednesday, ion orchard said only shops whose staff have all been swabbed and tested negative are allowed to reopen.
it added: "you are expected to make the necessary arrangements to begin your operations and ensure the stores are manned accordingly.
"still, about a dozen shoppers were seen at the mall, including ms liyana laily, 29, who works in quality assurance.
a view from inside ion orchard after it reopened on june 16, 2021.  st photo: kevin lim

a view from inside ion orchard after it reopened on june 16, 2021.  st photo: kevin lim 
she decided to pop by the mall as she was in the area.
she was not aware that ion orchard had been closed for four days owing to covid-19.
"but i'm not worried.
singapore has a certain standard of cleanliness and obviously they want business to come back, so they would put in effort to maintain that standard," she said.
another shopper who wanted to be known only as mr koda, 41, also dropped by the mall to buy a pair of shoes for his two-year-old son.
he, too, was not concerned about the recent covid-19 cases linked to the mall.
"if anything, this would be the cleanest place in singapore after all that cleaning," said mr koda, who works in the energy sector.
"and singapore does a good job of cleaning, so i'm not worried," he added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
diver said he thought of his wife and kids while he was stuck inside the whale's mouthfind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilea lobster diver who survived being engulfed by a whale recounted his wild life – in which he has survived a plane crash and found a dead body – during a reddit "ask me anything".
users on the site spoke with michael packard, a fisherman who wound up inside the mouth of a humpback whale while diving for lobster last friday.
mr packard's son facilitated the discussion.
mr packard said it was totally dark inside the creature's mouth, and said the whale used its head and tongue to dislodge him from its mouth.
he insists the whale could not have swallowed him fully, even if it wanted to.
however, he said he could have still died regardless, as he could have suffocated inside the mouth or drowned, as he momentarily lost his diving regulator.
mr packard said he was trapped in the whale's mouth for between 30 and 40 seconds, and said he was "almost convinced i was going to die that day".
he said it is not unusual for him to run into whales while diving, but said in most cases the animals keep their distance.
he was taken to the hospital, after the incident, and suffered soft tissue damage from the blunt force of the whale's mouth, which he said he could feel clamping down on his leg.
mr packard recalled having numerous visits while he was at the hospital from doctors and nurses asking him about the whale experience, including one nurse who came in with a notepad and asked him for lottery numbers.
during the chat, the diver revealed that being nearly eaten by a whale is only one in a line of exceptional experiences he's had.
"a while back, i encountered the corpse of a missing person while diving," he said.
"that is definitely up there with the crazy stories.
"he said the body he found was being sought by investigators as part of an active missing person case.
the diver also revealed that he had survived a plane crash in costa rica.
in 2001, mr packard and seven others were in a small plane when it crashed in costa rica, killing three of the passengers.
doctors who treated the survivors – including mr packard, who had sustained injuries to his chest – said they would not have survived another night at their crash site due to the injuries they sustained.
noting the cinematic series of misadventures the diver has had, reddit users asked him who he would want to play him in a movie about his life.
mr packard said he would prefer matt damon, though his wife insists that sean penn take the role.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliesscreengrabwant to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
singapore more charges, including those involving the immigration and checkpoints authority, are expected to be handed to a woman who was caught on video refusing to wear a mask at marina bay sands (mbs) integrated resort amid the covid-19 outbreak, a district court heard on tuesday (june 15).
the prosecutor mentioned the additional charges on tuesday in asking for a three-week adjournment.
details about these charges were not revealed in court.
phoon chiu yoke, 53, currently faces seven charges over various offences, including failing to wear a mask at public places such as mbs, bras basah complex and outside the state courts building.
the singaporean, who was not represented by a lawyer, told district judge janet wang on tuesday that she wants to apply for these charges to be dropped.
stressing that she is a former naval officer, phoon said that she had been "an eyewitness or plaintiff" in earlier cases linked to the singapore armed forces (saf) and that it would be difficult for her to have a fair hearing due to these cases.
"i am not privy to discuss all these cases in court here without causing embarrassment or being prejudicial to the saf and to the government of singapore.
.
.
(i) am applying for all these charges to be dropped," she said.
"due to all these cases in the past, i should be granted immunity as a citizen.
"judge wang replied that the earlier cases are not relevant to her current set of charges.
[[nid:530394]]at an earlier hearing on may 25, the court ordered that phoon be remanded at the institute of mental health for two weeks for psychiatric assessment.
arguing against the order at the time, phoon also said she was a former naval officer, with a history of good conduct.
she added that she had returned from holiday and was unaware of the laws requiring her to wear a mask.
she first appeared in court last year after she allegedly failed to wear a mask over her nose and mouth "at all times" at newton hawker centre between 7.
20pm and 8pm on may 8 during the circuit breaker period.
she left singapore for britain soon after that alleged offence.
she returned to singapore on june 28 last year and had to serve a 14-day stay-home notice at mbs until july 12. the court earlier heard that she allegedly left her hotel room at mbs between 8.
07pm and 8.
23pm on june 28.
[[nid:532027]]phoon is said to have loitered around various places in the hotel and is accused of failing to wear a mask while doing so.
following this, she allegedly failed to wear a mask in public places on multiple occasions between dec 2 last year and may 24 this year, at mbs and outside the state courts building, as well as at clarke quay central and bras basah complex.
she was arrested on may 25 this year.
on tuesday, her case was adjourned to july 6.  she remains out on bail of $8,000.
first-time offenders who breach laws under the covid-19 (temporary measures) act can be jailed for up to six months and fined up to $10,000.
repeat offenders can be jailed for up to a year and fined up to $20,000.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei mr miles hu plans to get his covid-19 vaccination in the united states later this month, joining other anxious taiwanese who are seeking the jabs elsewhere because of the slow rate of vaccination at home.
"i'm pretty sure taiwan won't have enough vaccines for everyone until year-end, so i decided to combine a work trip with the vaccination," said the 40-year-old who manages tech investments.
mr hu told the straits times that he will be travelling to los angeles, and plans to book an appointment to get vaccinated at a pharmacy near his airbnb lodging.
many american states do not require residency for free covid-19 vaccines.
while mr hu believes that taiwan has "done a very good job, better than the vast majority of places", with its covid-19 measures in the past year, he says the government never had a solid plan to ensure that there were enough vaccines for the population of 23.
7 million.
after largely keeping covid-19 contained for a little over a year, infections in taiwan have grown 10-fold in the past month.
the island reported 135 cases on tuesday (june 15) and eight deaths, bringing the total to 13,241 cases and 460 fatalities.
taiwan has ordered some 20 million shots from moderna, astrazeneca and the covax global sharing scheme for lower-income places.
but the imports have been arriving in small batches that are barely enough for high-risk groups like medical workers and their families.
the island has so far received only 726,600 doses of the astrazeneca vaccine and another 150,000 doses of the moderna vaccine.
health minister chen shih-chung said on may 29 that the government aims to have at least 60 per cent of the population receive their first jabs by october.
earlier this month, japan donated 1.
24 million astrazeneca doses to taiwan and the us has promised to donate 750,000 shots.
but with only some 3 per cent of the population vaccinated as at last week, many are getting worried or frustrated, while at the same time, struggling to adapt to a soft lockdown schools as well as entertainment and recreation facilities are shut, and working from home is encouraged.
those who have foreign citizenship are the luckier ones.
ms winnie huang and her partner, both taiwanese who also hold us citizenship, flew to taiwan in early may 2020, when covid-19 cases were skyrocketing in the us.
"i feel lucky to be able to travel to taiwan while the rest of the world is under lockdown," said 27-year-old ms huang.
the couple were able to work remotely for a year, and flew back to the us in late april to get vaccinated just when a string of local cluster infections broke out in northern taipei.
as taiwan continues to extend its second-highest alert level, talk of "vaccine tour groups" spread quickly online.
according to local media, screenshots of messages detailing the itinerary of a "21-day pfizer tour" were leaked to reporters in late may.
the itinerary began on june 1 in los angeles, taking the tour group to get their first jab on june 2, and touring las vegas, san francisco, san diego before the second dose back in los angeles.
the trip reportedly cost nt$350,000 (s$16,800).
the government quickly announced that such tours are illegal, and agencies will be fined up to nt$150,000 and potentially be stripped of their licence.
some taiwanese have also headed to china for their jabs.
china has opened up vaccination to those from taiwan, hong kong, macau and other places in the world, but people from taiwan will have faster access through "green channels", said mr xu zhen-wen, a taiwanese businessman in china.
the head of a taiwan business association on the mainland said after their two-week quarantine in china, taiwanese people can register for free vaccination through an app or at the local taiwan affairs office chapter.
once approved, they can get their free jabs at "green channels" set up in hospitals, clinics, and vaccination centres across china, "as a way to fast-track vaccination procedures for taiwanese in china", said mr xu.
mr kao ren-mao, 42, and his wife flew to shanghai in may to get vaccinated.
they received their first jab of china's sinopharm vaccine last thursday and are waiting for their second one.
a screenshot showing that mr kao ren-mao has received his first sinopharm vaccine shot.
photo: mr kao ren-mao
mr kao told the straits times that he knows at least a dozen more taiwanese who opted to do the same, complaining that "the taiwanese government is taking too long to vaccinate everyone".
"i wanted to bring the whole family but most of them couldn't leave work for over a month," said mr kao, who works for a transportation company based in china's hefei city, but has been working remotely in taiwan for a year.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington (reuters) united states republican representative marjorie taylor greene publicly apologised on monday (june 14) for her remarks last month comparing covid-19 mask requirements and vaccinations to the nazi holocaust that killed six million jews.
"i have made a mistake and it's really bothered me for a couple weeks now," ms greene told a news conference.
she added that "there's nothing comparable" to the holocaust and "i know the words i stated were hurtful and for that i am very sorry.
"the news conference came amid calls from some democrats to censure ms greene for her holocaust remarks.
her comments had also been denounced by republican congressional leaders.
she said she had visited the united states holocaust memorial museum earlier on monday.
she also mentioned that when she was 19 years old, she visited the auschwitz concentration camp in poland where more than one million jews were murdered by the nazis.
it was not the first time the 47-year-old congresswoman from georgia, who arrived in congress in january, had roiled the waters in washington.
in february, the democratic-led house of representatives stripped her of two high-profile committee assignments after her remarks that included support for violence against democrats.
then, too, ms greene distanced herself from such statements, saying: "these were words of the past and these things do not represent me.
"in response to reporters' questions on monday, ms greene, an ardent supporter of former president donald trump, refused to distance herself from a comment he made in 2017, following violent protests involving white supremacists in charlottesville, virginia, in which he said there "were very fine people on both sides".
before arriving in congress, ms greene voiced support for unfounded conspiracy theories, including the qanon claim that elite democrats are part of a cabal of satan-worshipping paedophiles and cannibals, as well as an anti-semitic claim suggesting a space laser was used to deliberately start a california wildfire.
ms greene opened her news conference saying: "i just always want to remind everyone i'm very much a normal person.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
opinion by jill filipovic updated 6:06 pm et, tue june 15, 2021 jill filipovic is a journalist based in new york and author of the book "ok boomer, let's talk: how my generation got left behind. "
follow her on twitter.
the opinions expressed in this commentary are solely her own.
view more opinion articles on cnn.
(cnn)you know there's something deeply wrong with american conservatism when a republican member of congress has to go to the us holocaust memorial museum and hold a news conference to admit it's "offensive" to compare capitol hill mask-wearing rules to the holocaust.
sign up for cnn opinion's new newsletter.
join us on twitter and facebook
washington: the chinese scientist at the centre of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialised lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fuelled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones, including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans, in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells".
but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
indiaworld
the development no one saw comingfind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilefind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilecongress greene holocauston the surface, she did everything she was supposed to do.
she made a stupid (very, very stupid) comment; she educated herself on the community she insulted; she apologized without a "sorry, but" in sight.
"one of the best lessons that my father always taught me was when you make a mistake you should own it," said marjorie taylor greene, standing outside the capitol early this week.
"and i have made a mistake .
.
.
so i definitely want to own it. "
greene had recently visited the holocaust museum in washington dc, she explained, and had learned more about the context of her remarks a few weeks ago.
at that time, she compared speaker of the house nancy pelosi's mask mandate to the holocaust and the democratic party to the nazis.
"there is no comparison to the holocaust," she said on monday, ".
.
.
if we're going to lead, we need to be able to lead in a way where if we've messed up it's very important for us to say we're sorry. "
she had realized the importance of accountability after a conversation with her late father, she added.
this is a development few of us expected.
we know the far-right wing of the republican party and their usual approach to criticism: deflect, deflect, deflect.
went on a vacay while the rest of your state was in an energy crisis during a historic snowstorm?
blame it on the kids!
condemn direct action by black lives matter but then watch maga supporters storm the capitol?
blame it on antifa!
lose an election?
blame it on nefarious vote-switching gangs and joe biden's communist friendship with a dead dictator from venezuela!
greene is a little different, though.
she traffics in controversy: claiming that 9/11 might've been an inside job, for instance, or that school shootings might have been nefarious "false flag" operations populated with actors and staged by liberals.
she tries them on for size.
then, when everything feels like it's gotten a little out of hand – like when even some of her own colleagues voted to expel her from two house committees – she begins to backtrack.
what all this allows greene to do is position herself as a politician who listens, who doesn't mind owning up to mistakes, who cares about accountability and responsibility.
whether or not it was responsible to pose absurd questions like whether being made to wear a gold star in nazi germany is the same as being asked to wear a face mask in a grocery store during a pandemic is immaterial.
instead, greene gets to stand in front of cameras and talk about leadership in front of the most recognizable building in the world.
in mopping up after the mess she created herself, she doesn't just keep herself in the headlines (plenty of politicians manage that and fail to benefit); she builds a brand.
the age of shameless, bombastic bluster is over.
greene knows she can't get away with simply throwing out verbal grenades and hoping she does as much damage as possible.
the 2020 election proved that even though many americans are still seduced by trumpian ideals, many now find the man unpalatable.
there's still a place for someone who talks the talk but doesn't walk as much of the walk; someone who plays up the down-to-earth stuff rather than the cult leader stuff.
so, like chrissy teigen apologizing for being a twitter troll in her twenties, greene saunters in and tells us that she's sorry.
she comes from a family line of people who hold themselves up to scrutiny and admit when they find themselves lacking, she tells us.
she got it wrong.
she can hold her head up high and look us in the eye and say: yes, that whole holocaust/mask comparison was a little much, now i've seen the pictures.
she'll stand by the comparison of the democrats to the nazis, though.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliescongress greene holocaustcopyright 2021 the associated press.
all rights reserved.
want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
philippine president rodrigo duterte yesterday slammed a call for a war crimes court to probe his bloody drug war as "legally erroneous and politically motivated".
mr duterte's spokesman harry roque said at a press conference that the president's crackdown on the narcotics trade was not a "widespread systematic attack against civilians".
"did you target civilians?
did you kill them willingly, knowing they were civilians?
obviously, the answer is no," he said.
that being the case, he argued, the "extrajudicial killings" that resulted from the drug war could not be considered "crimes against humanity".
in one of her last acts before she steps down as chief prosecutor of the international criminal court (icc) this week, ms fatou bensouda has sought a full investigation into mr duterte's purported crimes against humanity in a drug war that has left thousands dead since he took office in 2016.
"i have determined that there is a reasonable basis to believe that the crime against humanity of murder has been committed.
.
.
in the context of the government of the philippines' 'war on drugs' campaign," she said in a statement.
in her 57-page report to the icc's judges, ms bensouda said "there is a reasonable basis to believe" that security forces and state-sanctioned "vigilantes" killed between 12,000 and 30,000 drug suspects from july 1, 2016, to march 16, 2019. she said security officials "paid police officers and vigilantes bounties" to execute people suspected of being involved in the drug trade.
"state officials at the highest levels of government also spoke publicly and repeatedly in support of extrajudicial killings and created a culture of impunity for those who committed them," she added.
she said the investigation should include allegations of torture and other "inhumane acts" dating as far back as 2011, when mr duterte was mayor of davao city.
human rights activists called ms bensouda's decision a step towards holding mr duterte accountable.
it is a "much-awaited step" in putting an end to "murderous incitement by president duterte and his administration", amnesty international's secretary-general agnes callamard said.
"the icc's intervention must end this cycle of impunity in the country and send a signal to the police and those with links to the police who continue to carry out or sanction these killings that they cannot escape being held accountable for the crimes they commit," she said.
the international coalition for human rights in the philippines said it is "a positive step that may help bring some measure of justice to the thousands victimised and terrorised by the duterte regime".
it called on the united nations human rights council to begin its own probe into mr duterte's human rights record.
mr duterte was elected to office in 2016 on a campaign promise to get rid of the country's drug problem, openly exhorting the police to kill drug suspects.
but he has repeatedly denied links to the killings, insisting that most resulted from rivalries among drug gangs.
he has also backed police accounts that most of those killed were on "drug watch lists" and that they had been armed and resisted arrest.
while ms bensouda concluded that as many as 30,000 had been killed, the latest official data showed that just 6,000 suspects had died in more than 200,000 anti-drug operations.
the philippines officially withdrew from the icc in 2019 on mr duterte's orders after multiple complaints were filed against him.
ms bensouda, however, said previous cases showed that "the court retains jurisdiction over crimes that are alleged to have occurred on the territory of that state during the period when it was a state party" to the icc.
but mr roque insisted that the icc lacked jurisdiction in the philippines: "we are no longer a member of the icc.
"he said that the court could not intervene as long as the philippines had "independent and competent courts" that were already investigating the killings.
"the icc will not exercise jurisdiction unless the state is unable and unwilling to prosecute.
.
.
this is not the case in the philippines," he said.
should the court decide to probe him for war crimes, mr duterte would "never cooperate" as long as he is president, mr roque added.
he said the icc should also not allow itself to be used by mr duterte's political enemies harbouring ambitions of higher office.
he said that among those who filed complaints to the icc was former senator antonio trillanes, a former soldier and fierce critic of mr duterte who has announced his intention to run for president next year.
the icc's judges have up to four months to issue a decision on ms bensouda's request.
but pursuing it would be up to ms bensouda's successor, mr karim khan, who is to be sworn in today.
in a statement, the philippines' foreign ministry said ms bensouda's "midnight announcement" has tied mr khan's hands.
the ministry added that ms bensouda has "undercut the attractiveness" of joining the icc for some countries.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: as singapore begins to vaccinate younger age groups against covid-19, some companies have introduced measures to encourage employees to get their jabs and to support those who may suffer side effects.
the registration exercise for singaporeans aged 12 to 39 began on jun 11.  this is a big group of about 1.
5 million people, health minister ong ye kung had said.
beyond giving employees time off to get vaccinated, companies cna spoke to said they have other support initiatives in place.
at singtel, for instance, employees are entitled to sick leave on the day of vaccination.
they can also work from home for a week after if they feel unwell, said the company's chief human resources officer aileen tan.
employees are also covered under the company's insurance plan, which defrays the cost of medical expenses for any sickness or disability resulting from the vaccination, said ms tan.
she added that singtel also invited infectious diseases expert dr leong hoe nam to clarify any doubts staff members may have about the vaccine.
more than 90 per cent of singtel employees in frontline roles, such as retail staff and field engineers, are fully vaccinated, said ms tan.
at ocbc bank, employees taking the vaccine are given a day off for each appointment, as well as private taxi reimbursement to and from the vaccination centres.
if they experience side effects, they may take an additional two days of medical leave without needing to provide a medical certificate.
the company will reimburse any medical consultation fees as well, said mr ernest phang, head of corporate services under group human resources.
"for those who decided to go ahead with (getting vaccinated), we will provide the necessary support to them because we understand the anxiety and stress that comes from having to make such a decision," he added.
similarly at uob, those who suffer side effects can tap the company's appointed panel of clinics for free medical consultation.
they also have life and health insurance that covers covid-19 infection and vaccination side effects.
"those who feel unwell after the vaccination are advised to consult a doctor immediately and to be on medical leave as advised by the doctor," said head of group human resources dean tong.
the side effects of the covid-19 vaccine include fever, chills, headaches, joint pain and tiredness.
"most side effects are mild or moderate, and usually get better within a few days," said the ministry of health.
according to the us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), side effects after the second shot may be more intense than after the first dose.
in addition, younger people are more likely to experience side effects compared to older people, said the cdc.
to allow employees to obtain online approval for essential facility visits and report covid-19 cases, sembcorp industries has come up with an app that was developed in-house.
"with the health and safety of our employees as our top priority in this pandemic, sembcorp has introduced a covid-19 app for employees to obtain online approval for essential facility visits, as well as to report cases," a spokesperson said.
the app also allows employees to provide voluntary updates on their vaccination status.
companies cna spoke to stressed that it is important for employees to rest if they don't feel well after vaccination.
"in the event that (employees) feel unwell after their vaccination, we encourage them to take ample rest to recover," said an ntuc fairprice spokesperson, adding that as frontline workers, its employees were given priority for vaccination earlier this year.
"fairprice encourages all staff to be vaccinated, and to allay any concerns as well as to address queries, we invite medical experts to conduct online talks so that staff are better informed on the benefits of vaccination.
"our leadership team also seeks to motivate staff by serving as an example and going for the vaccination when it is their turn," the spokesperson said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
with hospitals pushed to the limit, good samaritans have stepped forward to save lives.
but beating the second wave — and preventing a third — will take a lot more, experts tell the programme insight.
mumbai: people feared they would die if they stepped out of their homes.
in the streets, people were weeping beside the dead.
oxygen and hospital beds were in dire shortage.
as new cases in india exceeded 400,000 and deaths exceeded 4,000 on some days last month, even the rich and connected were not spared from the devastating second wave of the covid-19 pandemic.
but the virus did not kill the spirit of generosity.
in mumbai, kidney dialysis patient rozy saldhana and her husband had basic medical facilities including an oxygen cylinder set up at home for emergencies.
despite her kidney failure, the 52-year-old did not hesitate to give the cylinder to someone else who needed it.
her husband, pascol, had received a call from his friend, a school principal.
the husband of a teacher needed oxygen but could not get hold of a cylinder.
watch: in india, dialysis patient saves dying covid-19 victims (3:22)when saldhana — who has been on dialysis for five years — heard about it, she told her husband to give their cylinder to the man.
"don't worry about me.
i'm fit enough," her husband recollected her saying.
she did not stop there.
she told her husband to sell all her jewellery and buy oxygen to help more people.
he received 80,000 rupees (s$1,450) from the sale and did as his wife had asked.
over in delhi, a sikh voluntary organisation called khalsa help international has set up makeshift hospital facilities in several locations to treat patients.
its free oxygen support service has saved thousands of lives since late april.
its founder, gurpreet singh rummy, said the group has not refused anyone.
it has served more than 15,000 people, of whom around 8,000 to 10,000 had arrived in a critical state and would have died without oxygen support, he said.
"whether you're coming in a rickshaw or a mercedes-benz, we treat all equally.
our only priority is the level of oxygen," he told theprogramme insight.
we don't discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or if one is rich or poor.
our service is for everyone.
while getting supplies is not easy, he told reuters that the organisation's volunteers "travel hundreds of kilometres" to fetch oxygen, and "you can't expect such zeal from most government bodies".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the path to catastrophehealthcare experts said a highly transmissible strain, complacency and large gatherings were among the reasons behind the second wave.
last year, india was quick to impose a lockdown from late march.
while it caused suffering to migrant workers within the country, it helped contain case numbers, noted rajesh parikh, the director of medical research at jaslok hospital, one of mumbai's top hospitals.
but india failed to take advantage of the respite to ramp up facilities and oxygen production, he said.
from october, most safety protocols had been abandoned, and millions of people travelled between states.
large gatherings in the form of diwali celebrations and weddings made a comeback.
"one of the confounding factors in the second wave has been large gatherings, whether it's for the kumbha mela, a religious gathering, or the political rallies which occurred throughout west bengal," said parikh.
these "undoubtedly" amplified the second wave.
the authorities also incorrectly estimated that india's population had "possibly acquired herd immunity", cited k srinath reddy, the president of the public health foundation of india.
antibody surveys were done in a "patchy" and "piecemeal" fashion across the country, with "markedly varying results", noted the professor.
the best results showed widespread detection of antibodies, hence the belief that "most of india" had herd immunity.
"the public wanted to believe it.
the businessmen wanted to believe it because they wanted to put the economy back on the rails.
the small traders wanted to believe it because they'd suffered a lot," said the cardiologist and epidemiologist.
"the politicians wanted to believe it because they wanted to go back to election rallies .
.
.
even people who wanted to organise religious festivals wanted to believe that good news, because that's their business as well.
"watch: the full episode — india's covid catastrophe: what went wrong?
(48:05)meanwhile, a new viral strain — called the delta variant, or b.
1.
617 previously — emerged and spread more quickly than doctors expected.
"we've seen that (if) even one person in the family is infected, the entire household comes down with the infection in the next 10 or 12 days," said mumbai-based infectious diseases expert trupti gilada-baheti.
vaccination a matter of urgencythe outcome is immeasurable grief across india.
pune resident arun gaikwad, a 47-year-old indian air force officer, lost his wife and half her family in the span of 15 days in march and april.
they had held prayers for his late father-in-law, and one of his brothers-in-law had a cold.
in the following days, nearly everyone who had gathered, including gaikwad's teenage daughter and son, tested positive for covid-19.
when his wife developed breathing difficulties, he rushed to several hospitals before locating one 40 kilometres away with a ventilator bed available.
two days after she was admitted, she died of cardiac arrest.
two brothers-in-law and his mother-in-law also died.
new cases have declined since last month after lockdowns were imposed.
but to prevent a resurgence, doctors say the country must urgently vaccinate its people.
in a population of over 1.
3 billion people, over 240 million doses of vaccine have been administered so far.
india must ensure that there are enough vaccines and ramp up its vaccination drive in both cities and villages, said gilada-baheti, who works at the unison medicare and research centre.
"to keep ourselves from a very disastrous third wave, we'll have to vaccinate a substantial number of a population at phenomenal speed," said the doctor, who is also a consultant at prince aly khan hospital and at masina hospital.
effective control measures would also ease the mental strain on healthcare professionals.
"every day in the ward or the icu is like a battle," said gilada-baheti.
"every day we see victories, and we see losses .
.
.
it's heartbreaking.
"watch this episode ofinsight here.
the programme airs on thursdays at 9pm.
manila: philippine president rodrigo duterte will "never cooperate" with aninternational criminal court probeinto the country's deadly drug war, his spokesman said on tuesday (jun 15), branding the process "legally erroneous".
outgoing icc chief prosecutor fatou bensouda on monday asked judges at the world's only permanent war crimes court to authorise an investigation into allegations that philippine police unlawfully killed as many as tens of thousands of civilians between 2016 and 2019. duterte was elected in 2016 on a campaign promise to get rid of the country's drug problem, and he openly ordered police to kill drug suspects if their lives were in danger.
"the president will never cooperate until the end of his term on jun 30, 2022," harry roque told reporters, repeating a previous assertion that the icc has no jurisdiction in the philippines because it pulled out of the tribunal.
the philippines left the icc in 2019 after the court launched a preliminary examination into the war on drugs.
bensouda said it could still investigate crimes committed while the country was a member.
"the available information indicates that members of the philippine national police, and others acting in concert with them, have unlawfully killed between several thousand and tens of thousands of civilians" during the period under investigation, said bensouda, in one of her last acts before stepping down this week.
but roque rejected her findings and said it was "an insult to all filipinos" to suggest the country's justice system was not working.
"we will be compared to countries like darfur, areas where there is no functioning government.
it's not right," he said.
"if killings occurred, appropriate force and violence were observed.
"the crackdown is duterte's signature policy initiative and he defends it fiercely, especially from critics such as western leaders and institutions which he says do not care about the philippines.
more than 6,000 people have been killed in over 200,000 anti-drug operations conducted since july 2016, according to official data.
human rights groups estimate the number of dead could be several times higher.
many suspects have been put on "drug watch lists" by local officials and then visited by police at their homes a situation which often ends in a deadly shooting that officers claim was self-defence.
rights groups welcomed bensouda's request, with amnesty international describing the icc investigation as a "landmark step".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
geneva: a day before russian president vladimir putin was due to arrive in geneva for a historic summit with us president joe biden, a look-alike was spotted in the swiss city at a protest calling for the release of kremlin critic alexei navalny.
bare-chested and wearing army pants to mimic summer holiday shots of the real russian president, protester alexander lyubuschin donned a putin face mask and sat in on a bench of a sunny geneva square, pretending to neck vodka.
asked whether he expected a good result from the summit set to take place on wednesday afternoon at a nearby lakeside villa, the impersonator responded: "but of course.
if not i will cut off all the gas and oil.
"on the bench beside him was a fake pistol and a mock-up bottle of the nerve agent novichok, which german doctors said was used to poison navalny last year in siberia.
the kremlin denies allegations it ordered the poisoning.
nearby, a few dozen protesters shouted for navalny's release from a russian jail where he is serving a 2.
5 year sentence.
they chanted "russia without putin" next to a poster of navalny signing a heart a copy of a mural that appeared on a street in central geneva a few days ago.
a senior us official said biden's administration would bring up human rights at the summit where nuclear arms and ransomware are also on the agenda, but did not specify whether that includes navalny's case.
geneva hosts the un's human rights council and is a hub for activism.
navalny's daughter last week accepted a "moral courage" award on behalf of her father at a virtual event organised by the geneva summit for human rights and democracy.
maria knyazeva, a protestor, said she hoped biden would raise navalny's case directly with putin.
"i understand strategic issues have to be first but if biden and other western leaders will not stand up for human rights who will?"
she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei (bloomberg) china's air force sent 28 aircraft close to taiwan, the largest sortie this year, further ratcheting up military pressure on the government in taipei as it seeks to strengthen ties with the us.
the people's liberation army planes, including 14 j-16 and six j-11 fighters, were detected in taiwan's southwestern air defense identification zone tuesday, taiwan's defence ministry said in a statement.
taipei's military sent patrol aircraft, issued radio warnings and deployed air defense missile systems to monitor the activity.
chinese military aircraft have frequently entered the southwest part of taiwan's adiz over the past year as the pla has steadily picked up military activity around the democratically-ruled island.
washington and beijing have been issuing warnings to each other regarding taiwan since president joe biden took office in january, adding to tensions that increased steadily during the trump administration.
the most recent exchange emerged from the group of seven summit in the uk over the weekend as leaders, at biden's behest, expressed concerns over taiwan as well as xinjiang and hong kong.
china responded by calling the us "very ill. " china considers taiwan as a breakaway province and has repeatedly threatened to take control of the island by military force if necessary to prevent taipei from making a move toward formal independence.
the chinese defense ministry said in april that the liaoning aircraft carrier had carried out exercises near taiwan and the navy would plan more drills.
"this big mission is a reminder that china has not renounced the use of force against taiwan, and its size and composition broadcasts beijing's willingness to actively confront, with military might if necessary, anyone who opposes it," said mr drew thompson, a former official overseeing military-to-military relations for the us defense secretary, who is now a visiting senior research fellow at the national university of singapore's lee kuan yew school of public policy.
taiwan's foreign ministry said in a statement wednesday that peace and stability in the strait are being "unilaterally, purposely sabotaged" and urged the chinese government to end its military threat.
the "blind adherence" that taiwan's democratic progressive party shows for independence "is the root cause of tensions in cross-strait relations," mr ma xiaoguang, spokesman for the beijing office that handles matters related to taiwan, said at a regular press briefing.
"we will never allow the dpp to regard our goodwill as an opportunity to seek independence, and will never allow anyone to separate taiwan from china in any way," mr ma added.
the government of president tsai ing-wen views taiwan as an already de facto sovereign nation.
earlier this month, a bipartisan us congressional delegation visited taiwan prompting criticism from chinese nationalists online.
china's top diplomat, yang jiechi, urged the us to tread carefully on issues relating to taiwan last week in a call with secretary of state antony blinken.
so long as the pla air force acts in accordance with international norms and agreements, the chances of an accident are small, mr thompson said.
"should pla planes operate in a reckless fashion – regardless of how justified beijing feels about applying military pressure towards taiwan or its neighbors – then the risk of an accident increases considerably," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on tuesday (15 june) confirmed 14 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,315. all of them are local cases in the community, of whom nine of 10 linked cases belong to the 115 bukit merah view market & food centre cluster.
the cluster now has 25 cases.
tuesday marks the 51st consecutive day with local cases reported as well as the first time since 29 june last year to have no imported cases reported.
"amongst the new cases today, four are asymptomatic, and were detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 10 were symptomatic," said the moh.
the four unlinked cases in the community are:a 41-year-old filipino woman who is a foreign domestic worker (received first dose of vaccine)a 36-year-old singaporean woman who is a homemakera 30-year-old singaporean woman who works as a sales representative at imperva singaporea 35-year-old singaporean man who is currently unemployedseparately, one case has been linked to the 36-year-old woman, who is his family member and household contact.
he is a 35-year-old singaporean man who works as a senior executive at nets.
the ministry noted that the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 93 in the week before to 60 in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has increased from 10 in the week before to 18 in the past week.
the moh also announced the closure of two clusters – "case 63290" and white sands – as there have been no cases linked to them for the past two incubation periods, or 28 days.
singapore currently has 44 active covid-19 clusters.
the cluster was first linked to a 74-year-old singaporean man who works at a sundry store at the food centre.
the fully-vaccinated man was confirmed to have covid-19 on 9 june.
three of the nine new cases linked to the cluster work at the food centre and had been quarantined earlier:a 37-year-old female india national who is a food stall vendora 77-year-old singaporean man who is a food stall vendor (fully vaccinated)a 39-year-old male india national who is a food stall vendor (fully vaccinated)of the remaining six, most are family members or household contacts, or both, of cases in the cluster:a 30-year-old male india national who works as a supervisor at keong hong construction (quarantined earlier)a 33-year-old female permanent resident who is a cleaner employed by sats facility management (quarantined earlier)a 35-year-old singaporean woman who is a teacher at kidscampus at chai cheea 87-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree; frequently visits 115 and 116 bukit merah view (link to cluster cases not mentioned)a 35-year-old male india national who works as a sales executive at halnaz frozen goods (link to cluster cases not mentioned)a 72-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree (fully vaccinated, link to cluster cases not mentioned)the food centre, initially planned for a 13 to 15 june closure, will now be closed to members of the public till 26 june, said the moh on tuesday.
this is due to the detection of more cases amongst the market and food centre staff and their close contacts, which suggests that there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission", the ministry noted.
all staff and tenants who have been working at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and are tested during quarantine.
the moh said that special testing operations have commenced on monday for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
free covid-19 testing has also been extended to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june, it added.
these testing operations are in progress, said the moh.
"all visitors to 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june are advised to monitor their health closely, and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their date of visit.
they are encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell," the ministry stressed.
with 17 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on tuesday, 61,911 cases – or 99.
4 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 137 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while two of them are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 233 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 96 confirmed cases reported from 9 to 15 june, 40 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 41 have tested negative, and 15 serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:'not possible to have fair hearing': woman without mask at mbsman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
new york: new york is lifting all state-mandated coronavirus restrictions after reporting that 70 per cent of the state's adults have received at least one dose of covid-19 vaccine, governor andrew cuomo announced on tuesday (jun 15).
"it is an important milestone, and we're going to keep pushing to do more," cuomo told a news conference, adding that the state would continue to encourage more new yorkers to get vaccinated.
restrictions across commercial and social settings will be lifted immediately.
cuomo said some limitations based on guidelines from the us centers for disease control and prevention would remain in place, with mitigation measures still required in public transit and healthcare settings.
cuomo, whose state was the epicentre of the u. s.  covid-19 public health crisis last year, also said individuals and businesses could still choose to adopt some precautions.
the governor, who won praise in the early days of the pandemic for his televised news conferences but later became entangled in accusations of sexual misconduct, abuse of power and allegations of mishandling nursing homes during the crisis, made a triumphant entrance at the world trade center in new york city on tuesday to mark what he called a "momentous day.
""new york state has fully vaccinated a larger share of adults than any other big state in the country," he told a cheering crowd that included first responders and hospitality workers.
on tuesday night, fireworks all across the state will celebrate the milestone, cuomo announced, and the empire state building and other state landmarks will be lit in blue and gold, new york's colours.
most u. s.  states have moved to ease or lift coronavirus restrictions as the virus abates and vaccinations progress.
new york joined california, where restrictions including physical distancing, mask requirements and capacity limits for restaurants, stores and other businesses that cater to consumers end on tuesday.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
seoul — south korea is facing a growing epidemic of online and tech-enabled "digital sex crimes" that is inflicting grave damage on women and girls, but the government has not done enough to stamp out the menace, human rights watch said in a report released wednesday.
south korea, a global leader in information and communication technology, is struggling to cope with a rise in crimes involving intimate images — almost always of women — that are captured and shared digitally without consent or manipulated to impersonate the victim in a sexually degrading manner.
"the root cause of digital sex crimes in south korea is widely accepted harmful views about and conduct toward women and girls that the government urgently needs to address," said heather barr, interim co-director for women's rights at human rights watch.
"the government has tinkered with the law but has not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal, and misogyny is unacceptable.
"the title of the 92-page report, "my life is not your porn," was the slogan used in rallies in south korea in 2018.  tens of thousands of women marched on the streets of seoul to protest voyeuristic pornography produced by illegal filming and criticize the government's inaction to stamp out the criminal practice.
according to south korean police data, the five-year average caseload of illegal-filming-related sex crimes reached 6,192 between 2015 and 2019, an 86 percent increase from the previous five years' average of 3,330. since the mass protest in 2018, the south korean government has changed the law and come up with prevention measures against digital sex crimes and a support system for the victims.
however, women and girls who have been targeted still face hurdles in accessing justice, according to testimonies cited in the report.
drawing from interviews with 12 survivors of digital sex crimes in addition to officials and experts, the report pointed to lack of awareness, victim shaming and insensitive investigation methods as barriers to seeking justice.
the fact that online images are easily copied adds to the uniquely persistent impact of digital sex crime, which leaves a lasting impact on the victims' lives.
"one of the most difficult things during the cybercrime was that i had to delete the numerous posts," one of the survivors, using the pseudonym of kang yu-jin, was quoted as saying in the report.
"it was a very painful and difficult job.
"kang said she was left on her own to rid the internet of sexually degrading images impersonating her, even after her ex-boyfriend was given a suspended sentence for posting them.
she spent several months deleting manipulated images, including ones that merged her face with nude photos of other women.
"it's like a murder, even though he didn't use a knife or a weapon.
it's like a murder to someone's identity or mentality," she told the rights group.
another interviewee in the report said she had been filmed unknowingly by a miniature camera hidden in a clock.
her employer, who gifted her the clock, admitted that he was looking at her in her bedroom through the camera for a month.
even after the perpetrator was sentenced to 10 months' imprisonment, she said she had to take medicine for depression and anxiety because of the traumatizing experience.
"what happened took place in my own room — so sometimes, in regular life, in my own room, i feel terrified without reason," she was quoted as saying in the report.
the release of the report comes amid fresh scandals involving secret filming in south korea.
earlier this month, the center for military human rights korea said an air force sergeant was caught breaking into women's dormitories and illegally filming female soldiers, but he was allowed to continue working with apparent impunity.
the air force authorities said later that the service has been conducting an investigation.
late last month, seoul's education superintendent, joe hee-yeon, issued a public apology after a high school teacher was caught installing spy cameras at the women's toilet in a school.
experts say a tougher and more detailed set of regulations is necessary to prevent the misuse of technology in digital sex crimes, but more fundamental is the need to address the underlying culture of misogyny at the core of the abuse.
the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
macau said wednesday it was closing its representative office in taiwan, following neighbouring hong kong which made the same move last month in protest at taipei's support for pro-democracy activists.
hong kong and macau are "semi-autonomous" chinese cities, although foreign policy is all but decided by beijing and the central government has taken an increasingly more direct say in how both former colonies are run in recent years.
in a short statement, macau announced its economic and cultural delegation in taiwan will temporarily suspend operations from june 19. in response, taiwan's mainland affairs council expressed "deep regret over the macau government's unilateral decision," saying it would continue to keep its trade office in the chinese gambling enclave open.
macau gave no reason for the closure.
but the wording was almost identical to last month's statement by hong kong.
that announcement was then followed by hong kong's government confirming the closure was indeed political.
taiwan, hong kong said, had "grossly interfered" in the city's affairs on repeated occasions and "created irretrievable damage" to relations.
hong kong and macau abide by authoritarian china's view that democratic, self-ruled taiwan is part of its territory and must be seized one day, by force if necessary.
that makes any official contact with taipei tricky, even though taiwan is a major trading partner.
china had encouraged trade offices when relations were warmer.
but since the 2016 election of taiwan's president tsai ing-wen, beijing cut official contacts and ramped up economic, military and diplomatic pressure.
beijing loathes tsai because she regards taiwan as a de facto sovereign nation and not part of "one china".
her government is also a vocal supporter of democratic principles and has quietly helped open its doors to some hong kongers trying to escape beijing's crackdown on dissent after huge democracy protests rocked the financial hub in 2019. jta/qanbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
coronavirus: india is the second among the nations hit worst by the virus.
with the fresh covid cases, the country's tally of cases has climbed to over 2.
96 crore, as per union health ministry.
the daily positivity rate further dropped to 3.
22 per cent.
it for the ninth straight day that india is seeing a positivity rate below 5 per cent.
maharashtra, the worst-hit state, on tuesday reported 7,652 new covid-19 cases, taking the state's tally to 59.
24 lakh.
after maharashtra, karnataka, kerala, tamil nadu and andhra pradesh have the highest number of infections.
karnataka recorded a further dip new cases with 5,041 fresh infections.
the state's positivity rate has fallen to 3.
8 per cent.
for the first time in two months, daily cases in bengaluru was under 1,000. neighbouring kerala, which also saw a worrying rise in daily covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic, logged 12,246 fresh infections in the last 24 hours.
the death count rose to 11,508 with 166 more deaths.
tamil nadu saw a slide in daily covid case counts for the 25th straight day, with 11,805 new infections.
267 covid patients died in the last 24 hours.
delhi logged 228 new coronavirus cases, which brought the total caseload to over 14.
31 lakh.
12 people died due to covid-19 in the last 24 hours the lowest daily count in more than two months since april 3. gurgaon, delhi's neighbouring city in haryana, reported 12 covid cases on tuesday, an all-time low according to its health department.
the city reported one covid death on the same day, while the active cases have come down to 332 bringing the positivity rate down to 0.
4 per cent.
the union health ministry on tuesday said anyone over the age of 18 can walk in to the nearest vaccination centre to get registered on the cowin digital platform and be inoculated against coronavirus.
track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
the exponential spread of the delta variant, and the uncertainties surrounding it, mean pausing the roadmap is justifiedlast modified on tue 15 jun 2021 07.
38 edtsince february, when boris johnson unveiled a four-step roadmap to ending all covid restrictions in england, progress has been steady and at times relatively serene compared with the periods of abject confusion and chaos that went before.
the successful rollout of the vaccination programme allowed targets to be met, including the substantial "step three" easing of restrictions on 17 may.
but as boris johnson recognised in his press conference today, the spread of the new delta variant – which now accounts for 96% of covid cases in the united kingdom – has upended calculations.
latest data suggests it is 40-80% more transmissible than the alpha variant, which originated in kent.
the variant partly evades vaccines and appears to increase the risk of hospitalisation.
hospital admission rates are increasing by 50% a week and 61% in the north-west.
a significant third wave is thus under way and the government's scientific advisers do not know the extent to which current rates of vaccination and acquired immunity will keep it in check.
a summer surge in hospitalisations could overwhelm an already overstretched nhs.
the prime minister is therefore right to opt for caution by delaying the lifting of all covid restrictions until 19 july, reviewing the data in two weeks' time.
the roadmap has encountered a significant new hazard and, as mr johnson put it: "now is the time to ease off the accelerator. "
given that significant unlocking has already taken place, it must be hoped this pause is enough to put the brakes on the new wave.
it will allow vital progress to be made in administering millions of second vaccine doses, which greatly increase protection against the delta variant.
it will also allow time to focus on reaching the 2 million or so over-50s who have still not been fully vaccinated, and to speed up second doses for the under-40s.
this will save lives.
by late july, schools will be breaking up for the summer, further reducing transmission risk.
even so, it seems likely that there will be another fraught review of data next month, in order to assess whether the link between infection and hospitalisation has been sufficiently broken to fully unlock.
the delay is, of course, another bitter blow for the hospitality industry and the arts.
theatres, restaurants, pubs, concert venues and nightclubs, after haemorrhaging cash for more than a year, have spent money that they haven't got preparing for a full reopening next week.
many businesses are teetering on the edge of the abyss and some will now go under.
the level of the government's support should reflect the extent of the restrictions it continues to impose.
instead, the treasury is sticking to its plan to scale down the furlough scheme and business rate relief, ramping the financial pressure up still further.
this is shortsighted and unfair.
far more needs to be done to address the dire predicament of much-loved institutions, many of them independently owned and part of the fabric of their communities.
there was at least some limited good news for those who planned summer nuptials on the presumption that all restrictions would be lifted.
mr johnson announced the current cap on 30 guests will still be lifted for weddings and for funerals, though other restrictions and social distancing will remain in place.
the delta variant has cast a shadow over the summer.
but given the greater risks it has unleashed, and its virulence, mr johnson was right to heed the scientific advice and press the pause button for the time being.
as sir patrick vallance suggested today, the vaccination programme is now in a race with a faster-spreading variant.
the four-week delay is necessary to help it win that crucial contest.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the multi-ministry task force tackling covid-19 is reviewing the timing and scope of the second stage of the economy's reopening, in the light of the emergence of a major covid-19 cluster in bukit merah and other new covid-19 cases, finance minister lawrence wong said on wednesday (june 16).
in an instagram and facebook post, mr wong noted that singapore is now in the first stage of its reopening following the phase two (heightened alert) restrictions, and that further relaxation of the rules was due to take place on june 21, including allowing dine-ins at eateries.
"unfortunately we now have new cases breaking out and a major new cluster in bukit merah.
given these developments, we are evaluating the timing and scope of the next stage of reopening.
the multi-ministry task force is studying the situation carefully with public health experts, and will provide further updates soon," said mr wong, who is co-chairman of the task force, in his post.
"day by day, we are seeing (that) the number of unlinked cases the cryptic cases in the community is likely to be rising too," he noted.
mr wong acknowledged that this is a difficult period for everyone in singapore.
"i want to assure all of you that we are doing our very best to control the infection, and we want to ensure that we do not have another flare-up, before we reach sufficiently high levels of vaccination in our community.
"singapore had planned to ease restrictions in two stages, following a steady drop in the number of covid-19 cases in the community.
from monday (june 14), people were able to gather in groups of up to five.
should the situation remain under control, further relaxation of the rules including permitting dining in at food and beverage outlets may take place a week later, on june 21. the closure of bukit merah view market and food centre was extended to june 26 on tuesday, after nine more cases were linked to the cluster, taking the total number of linked cases to 25. the centre has been closed since sunday and was originally meant to reopen on wednesday.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 14 confirmed cases of the coronavirus as at tuesday noon (june 15), taking singapore's total to 62,315, said the ministry of health (moh).
all were locally transmitted within the community.
five of the community cases are unlinked and nine are linked to previous cases.
of the linked cases, five had already been placed under quarantine, while the other four were detected through surveillance.
for the first time since june 29, 2020, there were no imported cases reported.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories either.
as at monday night, 138 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 235 are recuperating in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
more details will be announced on tuesday night.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing • china mocked us efforts to build a broader coalition to counter beijing, calling washington "very ill indeed" as the world's biggest economies continue to spar over everything from human rights to technology exports.
chinese foreign ministry spokesman zhao lijian yesterday hit back at us efforts to rally allied support during the summits of the group of seven (g-7) and the north atlantic treaty organisation (nato) in recent days.
the comments represented beijing's most pointed response since united states president joe biden began his first visit to europe focused on efforts to answer china's challenge to the global order.
"the us is ill and very ill indeed," mr zhao said.
"the g-7 had better take its pulse and come up with a prescription.
"earlier, china's mission to the european union warned nato that the country would not "sit back" in the face of any challenges.
the nato statement "slandered" china's peaceful development, misjudged the international situation and indicated a "cold war mentality", china said in a response posted on the mission's website.
china is always committed to peaceful development, it added.
it also said beijing does not pose a "systemic challenge" to any country, adding that nato should not exaggerate china's military power.
the statement also urged nato to push forward with dialogue and cooperation, and said the bloc should work to safeguard international and regional stability.
the comments from beijing come after nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg told reporters that the alliance is "concerned by china's coercive policies, which stand in contrast to the fundamental values enshrined in the washington treaty" on which the bloc rests.
he cited the country's rapidly expanding nuclear arsenal, military cooperation with russia and its use of disinformation.
the communique released after the nato meeting mentioned china 10 times, compared with just once after the last summit in 2019. the us is ill and very ill indeed.
the g-7 had better take its pulse and come up with a prescription.
russia was named more than 60 times this year.
the document also said that the bloc "maintains a constructive dialogue with china where possible".
washington has been seeking to build a united front on beijing, though mr biden settled for a modest condemnation at the g-7 meeting over the weekend.
mr biden had pushed for the group to confront china on topics such as alleged forced labour and human rights abuses, and on its belt and road initiative plan.
he said he also raised the issue of china refusing outside access to its laboratories to determine the origin of the covid-19 outbreak.
the g-7 communique calls for a "timely, transparent, expert-led and science-based" study led by the world health organisation into the disease's origins.
several leaders, including german chancellor angela merkel, pushed back amid concern about turning the g-7 into an anti-china group, suggesting that any infrastructure programme the nations supported should be framed as a more positive, pro-environment effort.
bloomberg, reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
more than a year into the pandemic, some people in singapore still refuse to abide by covid-19 rules.
on monday (june 14) night, a woman made a scene aboard bus service 69 in bedok as she refused to wear a face mask.
a passenger told shin min daily news that there were about 20 people on the bus at the time.
"i believe that the bus captain didn't notice that she wasn't wearing a mask when she boarded the bus.
"after he alerted him, the bus captain approached the woman to remind her to put a mask on, but she got into an argument with him.
he then called for help from his colleagues at the bedok bus interchange.
according to the chinese daily, a video clip showed the woman taunting the bus captain's colleague, spewing expletives and saying: "call 999, make a police report".
[[nid:502160]]the incident on the bus lasted about 15 minutes, causing many passengers to alight because their journeys were delayed.
moments later, the woman left and the bus captain continued to ply the route.
this is the latest in a string of incidents where passengers got aggressive when they were asked to wear masks on public buses.
several of them threatened and even assaulted bus captains.
since last april, it is a must for commuters to wear a mask when taking public transport and those without one will be denied entry, the land transport authority said.
in may, a 39-year-old man was arrested for causing public nuisance and flouting safe distancing measures as he refused to wear a mask and tried to convince another passenger to take his mask off in a viral video.
also read: 'it's my life': passenger refuses to wear mask, quarrels with bus captainlamminlee@asiaone.
com
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
clement yongthe straits timesjune 14, 2021the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday (june 13) that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said: "the police have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law.
"get a copy of the straits times or go to straitstimes.
com for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
zaobao logo and screenshot of editorial piece.
responding to an open letter signed by academics and independent scholars who characterised lianhe zaobao's characterisation of race relations in singapore as "unproductive", the chinese daily asserted that it has consistently upheld equality among all races and advocated for mutual understanding across ethnic groups in the country.
zaobao added that as the anchor chinese newspaper, it has publicly and unequivocally condemned the recent incidents of racial discrimination and has defended racial harmony via editorials and feature articles.
in a statement on monday (14 june), the publication said: "singapore is a multiracial nation.
we truly believe in the ideals expressed in the national pledge and cherish the hard-won racial harmony, but that does not mean that we believe that there are no tensions in racial relationships.
""lianhe zaobao has always taken a consistent stance on upholding equality among all races and advocating that there should be mutual understanding among ethnic groups.
this is evident from our editorials, news reports and feature articles.
in the midst of the pandemic, we have seen more racial tensions simmering, which is why we have published a total of seven editorials related to this issue in the past year and a half.
"the open letter which took issue with zaobao's article, titled "expand public space to promote racial harmony ()" published on wednesday, 9th june 2021, has been signed by over 200 academics and scholars so far.
the group said that the editorial "ignores the dynamics of structural racism and the longer history of racial stereotyping in singapore" and was concerned about how it placed blame on the recent spate of racist incidents on the uncertainty of the pandemic, the sensationalism of social media and the import of "foreign" ideas such as critical race theory (crt).
the group expressed the belief that the pandemic and social media has "simply revealed long-standing fissures and the everyday discrimination experienced by racial minorities in singapore".
"this structural understanding of how racial inequality is perpetuated is something that critical race theory (crt) – among other perspectives elaborated by authors in singapore and elsewhere – can offer," the letter emphasised.
the letter went on to criticise zaobao's misrepresentation of the theory as "promoting hatred of white people" in the united states and by extension, chinese people in singapore.
the group added that this argument is indefensible" and one that is made by far-right commentators in the us "who do not engage with the actual writings and concepts of crt".
acknowledging that there is room for debate on how the concepts from crt may apply in singapore, the academics nonetheless assert that the framework is "useful" for understanding racism in singapore as structural and historical.
the letter went on, "more worryingly, by arguing that critical race theory is to be blamed for stoking racial tensions, the article promotes a narrative of chinese victimisation that implicitly rationalises these acts of verbal and physical violence against minorities.
"it noted that those who discuss issues of racism critically, especially minorities, are painted as "aggressors" while those responsible for racists acts are cast as "victims seeking redress""characterising critical conversations about racism as simply a case of imported ideology erases the lived experiences of racial minorities in singapore," the scholars noted, adding that assuming chinese privilege as a direct import of white privilege is "not helpful" and distracts from creating the space necessary for meaningful and constructive conversation about racism in singapore.
in its response, zaobao expressed hope that its readers would consider its editorial in its entirely, noting that it tries to shed light on how all three of the aspects mentions have exacerbated racial tensions in singapore.
it added that the crt, which originated in the united states in the 19070s, was cited as an example of the influence of foreign ideas and has been used by scholars to analyse race relations in singapore, thus criticising the chinese daily downplaying the "systemic and structural racism" in singapore.
it also noted the varying interpretations of crt within academic circles, saying that the critique of the theory as a "far-right american perspective" should not be easily dismissed.
"we strongly believe that when discussing the issue of race in singapore, we should not be applying foreign ideas and concepts without adapting them to local conditions," added zaobao.
it went on to argue that theories and concepts based on foreign situations may not always be applicable to singapore and that it may complicate the understanding of the issue instead of deepening it.
"but we are also aware and accept that there are those who do not agree with such views and positions," it conceded.
zaobao added in its response, "racial harmony is a common goal for all singaporeans.
we believe the scholars who signed the letter share the same philosophy and welcome rational and open discussion on the issue. "
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
national university of singapore and nanyang technological university set up sg$23 million ($17.
39 million) research fund to develop cooling technologies for data centres operating in tropical locations, with a testbed facility slated to be ready this october.
by
                                
eileen yu

            
                    
                    for by the way
        
        
                                                        
                                                    |                june 16, 2021 -- 06:09 gmt (23:09 pdt)
            
                                        | topic: data centers
two singapore universities have set up a sg$23 million ($17.
39 million) research fund to develop sustainable cooling technologies for data centres operating in tropical locations.
the initiative will include a testbed facility that is slated to be up and running this october.
jointly led by national university of singapore (nus) and nanyang technological university (ntu), the programme is funded by singapore's national research foundation (nrf) as well as facebook.
five other industry players also are participating in the initiative including keppel data centres, ascenix, and red dot analytics.
key government agencies in singapore also would provide feedback on the research conducted.
the testbed would provide a platform for researchers and industry players to collaborate, the universities said in a statement wednesday.
energy-efficient cooling technologies would be developed and demonstrated at the facility, they added.
singapore puts budget focus on transformation, innovation
                    
after tilting last year's budget towards 'emergency support' in light of the global pandemic, singapore's government will spend sg$24 billion ($18.
1 billion) over the next three years to help local businesses innovate and build capabilities needed to take them through the next phase of transformation.
read more
they noted the need to do so as increasing digitalisation continued to drive demand for data centres, which currently were air-cooled at temperatures between 23 degrees and 27 degrees.
these facilities also required ambient humidity to be maintained between 50% and 60%.
doing so in tropical climates such as singapore's consumed more power, which drove up costs and carbon emissions.
with singapore home to 60% of data centres in southeast asia, almost 7% of the country's total energy requirements went towards powering these facilities.
this number was expected to hit 12% by 2030.  pointing to these stats, the universities underscored the need to cut power consumption and carbon footprint by "packing more computing power within the same floor area".
better solutions to sustain the cooling demands of data centres also needed to be developed.
to be located at nus' kent ridge campus, the "full-scale" testbed datacentre facility would be equipped with equipment such as a desiccant-coated heat exchanger design and statepoint liquid cooling system (splc).
developed by nortek air solutions alongside facebook, the splc was touted to enable data centres to operate more efficiently in tropical locations.
chip-based hybrid cooling technologies also would be adopted to cool servers, while artificial intelligence (ai) would be tapped to manage operations.
collectively, these aimed to enhance the efficiencies of water and power consumption in data centre equipment in the long run.
the testbed also would allow potential operational risks of conceptual technologies to be identified, the universities said, adding that four technologies currently were under research at the sustainable tropical data centre testbed.
these included raising air-cooling temperatures and relative humidity levels while maintaining the performance and resilience of datacentre equipment.
another research project would assess a heat sink design that integrated both air and liquid cooling technologies in a single chip, eliminating the need for connectors and ducts.
this aimed to evaluate alternative air-cooling solutions during water-loop maintenance, so server downtime could be reduced.
the testbed also would look at cooling technologies that were digitalised to allow real-time monitoring and ai-based optimisation.
when deployed successfully, these capabilities could potentially cut energy consumption and slash greenhouse gas emissions by up to 25%, compared to datacentre deployments that were traditionally air-cooled.
if adopted across all tropical markets, they could slash energy consumption within the data centre industry by at least 40%.
the testbed also would look to provide operating guidelines and establish new standards, based on its research findings, for sustainable datacentre operations.
nrf ceo low teck seng said: "data centres are the backbone of the digital economy and they require constant cooling for optimal operations.
the new [testbed] will accelerate the development and testbedding of innovative and sustainable solutions for data centres, towards commercial deployment. "
by
                                
eileen yu

            
                    
                    for by the way
        
        
                                                        
                                                    |                june 16, 2021 -- 06:09 gmt (23:09 pdt)
            
                                        | topic: data centers
securitymost firms face second ransomware attack after paying off firste-commercesingapore e-commerce aggregator eyes interoperability across apac marketplacesinnovationsingapore researchers tap human body as medium to power wearablessecurityhuawei reveals 'cybersecurity framework' with launch of china transparency centreplease review our terms of service to complete your newsletter subscription.
by registering, you agree to the terms of use and acknowledge the data practices outlined in the privacy policy.
you will also receive a complimentary subscription to the zdnet's tech update today and zdnet announcement newsletters.
you may unsubscribe from these newsletters at any time.
you agree to receive updates, alerts, and promotions from the cbs family of companies including zdnet's tech update today and zdnet announcement newsletters.
you may unsubscribe at any time.
by signing up, you agree to receive the selected newsletter(s) which you may unsubscribe from at any time.
you also agree to the terms of use and acknowledge the data collection and usage practices outlined in our privacy policy.
equinix, gic invest another $3.
9b in data centers for cloud service providers

									
																																																														equinix
																																																								and
																																																								singapore's
																																																								sovereign
																																																								wealth
																																																								fund
																																																								have
																																																								now
																																																								jointly
																																																								invested
																																																								more
																																																								than
																																																								$6.
9
																																																								billion
																																																								to
																																																								support
																																																								the
																																																								xscale
																																																								data
																																																								center
																																																								portfolio
																																																								for
																																																								hyperscale
																																																								companies.
.
.
.
hybrid cloud, on-premises workloads get their day in the sun, but forecast still cloudy

									
																																																														are
																																																								companies
																																																								really
																																																								going
																																																								to
																																																								repatriate
																																																								their
																																																								cloud
																																																								workloads?
probably
																																																								not.
but
																																																								it's
																																																								clear
																																																								enterprises
																																																								are
																																																								rethinking
																																																								what
																																																								workloads
																																																								they
																																																								keep
																																																								on-premises.
edge
																																																								computing,
																																																																																																																																																																																														.
.
.
best hyperconverged infrastructure systems vendors 2021

									
																																																														most
																																																								cloud
																																																								services
																																																								now
																																																								are
																																																								running
																																																								in
																																																								hyperconverged
																																																								data
																																																								center
																																																								appliances,
																																																								mainly
																																																								because
																																																								they
																																																								are
																																																								more
																																																								than
																																																								fast
																																																								enough
																																																								to
																																																								satisfy
																																																								overwhelming
																																																								24/7
																																																								demand
																																																								by
																																																								billions
																																																								of
																																																								users.
.
.
.
qrypt's cloud service will distribute entropy for better cryptography

									
																			the service is a digital alternative to quantum key distribution.
canberra certifies three data centre providers to store sensitive government data

									
																																																														australian
																																																								data
																																																								centres,
																																																								canberra
																																																								data
																																																								centres,
																																																								and
																																																								macquarie
																																																								telecom
																																																								given
																																																								the
																																																								nod
																																																								by
																																																								the
																																																								digital
																																																								transformation
																																																								agency
																																																								to
																																																								store
																																																								sensitive
																																																								government
																																																								data.
.
.
.
snowflake announces new data marketplace and 'powered' collaborations

									
																			the data cloud company unveiled a slate of new products, services, and integrations for multiple industries.
tough new safety laws for gig economy platforms and riders to be introduced in nsw

									
																			the nsw government is cracking down on making sure companies are protecting food delivery riders and riders are riding safely.
broadcom ups fiscal q3 outlook based on strong demand for processors

									
																			broadcom's semiconductors are used in data centers, networking gear, broadband and wireless devices as well as industrial.
tencent cloud adds three asian data centres, one in frankfurt

									
																																																														chinese
																																																								tech
																																																								giant
																																																								adds
																																																								new
																																																								data
																																																								centres
																																																								in
																																																								bangkok,
																																																								hong
																																																								kong,
																																																								tokyo,
																																																								and
																																																								frankfurt,
																																																								pushing
																																																								its
																																																								global
																																																								cloud
																																																								coverage
																																																								to
																																																								27
																																																								regions
																																																								and
																																																								66
																																																								availability
																																																								zones.
.
.
.
© 2021 zdnet, a red ventures company.
all rights reserved.
privacy policy |
                    cookie settings |
                    advertise |
                    terms of use
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on wednesday (16 june) confirmed 24 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,339. of them, 19 are local cases in the community, of whom 10 of 16 linked cases had been quarantined earlier.
five remaining cases are imported, including two returning singapore residents.
wednesday marks the 52nd consecutive day with local cases reported.
this story will be updated later.
with 17 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on tuesday, 61,911 cases – or 99.
4 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 137 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while two of them are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 233 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 96 confirmed cases reported from 9 to 15 june, 40 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 41 have tested negative, and 15 serology test results are pending.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
singapore — while singapore continues to be religiously diverse, more residents are identifying as having no religion, said the department of statistics (dos) in a report released on wednesday (16 june).
among singapore citizens and permanent residents aged 15 and above in 2020, those with no religious affiliation made up 20 per cent, an increase from 17 per cent in 2010, said the dos in the first statistical publication on its census 2020 findings.
within the ethnic groups, 25.
7 per cent of chinese identified as having no religion, while 0.
4 per cent of malays and 2.
2 per cent of indians said the same in 2020.  meanwhile, 14.
6 per cent of those from other ethnic groups said they had no religion.
among those who identified as having a religion, buddhists were the largest group at 31.
1 per cent, followed by christians at 18.
9 per cent and muslims at 15.
6 per cent.
taoists comprised 8.
8 per cent, while hindus made up 5 per cent, with those prescribing to other religions accounting for 0.
6 per cent.
the proportion of muslims and christians also grew between 2010 and 2020 while the proportion of buddhist and taoists dipped.
among the chinese, 40.
4 per cent identified as buddhists, while 21.
6 per cent were christian, 11.
6 per cent taoist and 0.
5 per cent muslim.
among the malays, 98.
8 per cent identified as muslim, while 0.
1 per cent said they were buddhists and 0.
4 per cent had no religion.
for indians, 57.
3 per cent identified as hindu, while 23.
4 per cent were muslim, 12.
6 per cent were christian and 0.
7 per cent were buddhist.
another 3.
9 per cent of indians identified with some other religion and 2.
2 per cent said they had no religion.
the dos report is aimed at providing broad trends and changes relating to the demographic characteristics, marriage and fertility, education, literacy, home language and religion of singapore's resident population – referring to citizens and permanent residents – between 2010 and 2020.  the census data was collated from 150,000 households.
more findings from census 2020 will be shared on friday.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:man who fled to thailand to avoid drug charges cheated mask buyers in singaporeall 14 new covid cases in singapore in communitylandlord who kept exposing himself to female tenant jailed and fineddickson yeo, s'porean who spied for china, to remain behind bars'not possible to have fair hearing': woman without mask at mbsbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a singaporean man who had worked for china's intelligence services since 2015 has been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for being a threat to singapore.
dickson yeo, 40, had acted as a paid agent of a foreign state, said the internal security department (isd) on tuesday (june 15).
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year, after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains," said the department.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said that yeo was tasked with sourcing information and providing reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
he had approached various individuals in singapore to try and obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports.
yeo had set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities, as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
"he had also tried, but failed, to secure employment in the singapore government sector to further his information-gathering activities.
yeo had carried out these activities over a period from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019," said isd.
the department said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's continued detention is necessary to allow the isd to find out the full extent of his activities.
during a trip to beijing in 2015, yeo was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy at the national university of singapore at that time.
us court documents show he admitted to being offered money in exchange for political reports and information, initially on south-east asia, before focusing on the us.
he also made numerous trips to meet the chinese agents he was in contact with, trawled social networking sites to find targets and was directed to set up a fake consulting firm, resolute consulting the same name as a renowned us firm.
he registered the company in singapore in early 2018 and got more than 400 resumes, mostly american military and government staff with security clearances.
he then got a post as a visiting scholar at george washington university in washington and travelled to the us to continue his efforts.
living in the washington area from january 2019 to july 2019, yeo exploited networking opportunities in the area to spot and assess individuals from whom he could extract information.
he was questioned by immigration officers at the john f.  kennedy airport in new york, when he returned to the us in november 2019. spooked, he booked a flight to return the next day, when he was approached by federal bureau of investigation agents.
he agreed to be interviewed and was taken into custody.
news of yeo's arrest and guilty plea was announced last july and he was sentenced last october.
he maintained before the court that he was supportive of the chinese cause and claimed that he did not betray singapore.
when announcing his arrest upon returning to singapore, isd said yeo had revealed to us investigators that his previous intelligence taskings targeted other states, apart from the us.
"the singapore government takes a very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government and engages in activities at the behest of the foreign power that is inimical to our national security and interests, including bilateral relations," said the isd on tuesday.
dickson yeo, who is enrolled as a phd student at the lee kuan yew school of public policy, travels to beijing to give a presentation on south-east asian politics.
he is recruited by chinese intelligence operatives there.
yeo uses a professional networking website to contact and recruit a civilian working with the us air force on the f-35 fighter jet programme.
the civilian writes a report for yeo and gives him information on the geopolitical implications of japan purchasing f-35 aircraft from the us.
yeo creates a fake consulting company to harvest resumes from us military and government employees with access to sensitive information.
yeo recruits a us state department employee and pays him to write a report about an unnamed member of the us cabinet.
he moves to washington, dc, to network with people and tries to recruit them.
his linkedin profile lists him as a doctoral fellow at the george washington university during this time.
yeo returns to the us to ask a us army officer working at the pentagon to provide classified information.
he is stopped and arrested after landing at the airport.
yeo pleads guilty to one charge of acting within the us as an illegal agent of a foreign power.
yeo's sentencing hearing is scheduled.
he receives a 14-month jail sentence, with the 11 months he had spent in jail credited towards his sentence.
yeo is deported to singapore from the us and arrested by the internal security department.
an order of detention under the internal security act is issued against yeo for acting as a paid agent of a foreign state.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore samantha (not her real name) did not have to change her glasses for two years.
but with increased screen time during the pandemic, her myopia shot up from 300 to 400 degrees for both eyes in december last year.
the 11-year-old was spending as many as 10 hours a day looking at screens, be it for online lessons or digital entertainment.
her parents were so busy working at home that they left her to her own devices, ophthalmologist claudine pang, founder and medical director of asia retina eye surgery centre, tells the straits times.
a year since the end of the circuit breaker, eye-care professionals here are seeing more kids who are starting to have myopia, or whose condition has worsened.
mr ken tong, eyesight.
sg vision-care clinic's founder and chief executive officer, has observed a 30 to 40 per cent increase in children visiting his outlets in potong pasir and tampines after the circuit breaker.
besides seeing more first-time spectacle wearers aged five and six, he notes that some of the myopic children needed to change their lenses in six months instead of the usual one year.
optometrist jaycob chin, branch manager at videre eyecare at forum the shopping mall, has also noticed a rise in myopia among children since covid-19.
one contributing factor is greater screen time.
"the number of hours spent on digital devices has increased dramatically with the implementation of home-based learning," he says.
"most children will soon receive their personal learning devices and we could see a spike in myopic cases in the near future.
"it is a trend found elsewhere too.
a study of 123,535 children in china found that the prevalence of myopia in kids aged six to eight increased last year over the previous five years, following school closures due to the pandemic.
the study was published in jama ophthalmology journal in january.
also known as shortsightedness or near-sightedness, myopia is a vision disorder where distant objects appear blurry.
in singapore, 80 per cent of 18-year-olds are myopic, says associate professor audrey chia, head of the paediatric ophthalmology and adult strabismus department at singapore national eye centre (snec).
myopia can affect pre-schoolers, with 7 per cent of five-year-olds in singapore having to wear glasses.
this figure increases to 10 to 20 per cent in primary 1 and 2 pupils; 30 to 40 per cent in primary 3 and 4 pupils; and 60 per cent in primary 6 pupils.
most young children do not have a concept of what blurred vision is, or that it is possible for their eyesight to be better, says mr chin.
as such, their myopia may be diagnosed and treated only at a later age.
this puts them at greater risk of developing higher degrees of myopia when they are older.
parents should look out for signs of myopia in their kids.
these include holding a book very close to the eyes, moving closer to see an object, tilting the head or squinting the eyes.
while parents should take their kids for regular eye checks, preferably once every six months, some are postponing such appointments during the pandemic, notes senior optometrist chew wai kwong from videre eyecare at centrepoint.
the store has seen more myopic kids since the circuit breaker as well.
parents whose children are under eight years can consider taking them to a paediatric eye clinic for assessment and their spectacle prescription, says prof chia, who is also the co-clinical director of snec's myopia centre.
cycloplegic eye drops are often used in young children to obtain accurate prescriptions for their lenses.
ms kathy park, president of essilor ophthalmics company for asean and south korea, says: "the younger a child becomes myopic, the faster it will progress, and the higher the prescription may eventually become. "
myopia often stabilises only at 18 or later, she adds.
dr pang says it is important to slow down the progression of myopia as those with spectacle power above 500 degrees face a higher risk of developing sight-threatening complications later in life like cataract, glaucoma, retinal detachment.
while kids spending more time indoors during the pandemic has likely contributed to their worsening eye sight, prof chia says this is a problem even before covid-19.
"even before and after the circuit breaker, children in singapore are not really going out to play.
this led to so many of them getting myopia in the first place.
"dr pang says that, ultimately, children should take the responsibility of caring for their eyes.
in the case of her young patient samantha, she went through and reinforced good eye-care habits with her.
for instance, the computer or digital device screen should be placed at least one arm's length away from the eyes.
or take frequent visual breaks with the use of an alarm.
"myopia control and education for the child is just as important as for the parents," says dr pang.
while one may think myopia is no big deal as one can turn to lasik or other refractive procedures, ms kathy park, president of essilor ophthalmics company for asean and south korea, says this is a misconception.
"refractive surgery can correct myopia only by changing the front parts of the eyes, hence your eyes are still longer than normal.
your risks of myopia complications are the same as somebody with your degrees who has not gone through the surgery.
"even though myopia cannot be reversed, there are many treatment options to prevent it from worsening.
here are some common ones.
these are said to help ease eye fatigue caused by the blue light emitted by electronic devices.
if your children are getting low to moderate exposure to digital devices, ophthalmologist claudine pang, founder and medical director of asia retina eye surgery centre, recommends using blue light filtering modes or screen protectors on the device directly instead of in spectacle lenses.
kids need an adequate amount of blue light from sunlight for growth and to regulate their mood and body clock.
"early studies have shown a deficiency in blue light exposure from the sun could contribute to the increase in myopia," she says.
as the long-term effects of using blue light-blocking lenses on children's development are not well-known, she does not encourage using them.
ophthalmic lens companies, including essilor, have launched lenses that are said to not just correct, but also to help control myopia progression.
based on a clinical trial which started in 2018, ms park says essilor's stellest lenses help slow myopia progression by 67 per cent on average when worn at least 12 hours a day.
the trial is still ongoing.
professor audrey chia, head of the paediatric ophthalmology and adult strabismus department at singapore national eye centre, says early reports about myopia control lenses are promising and they may work better in kids aged nine and above.
younger children and those with high myopia or astigmatic degrees were not part of the study, which looked at kids aged eight to 13. prof chia says parents can consider these lenses if their kids have progressive myopia, which means an increase of more than 50 to 100 degrees in their spectacle power a year.
an established treatment option for myopia, atropine can be used alone or in combination with optical devices such as glasses or contact lenses, says prof chia.
dr pang says the eye drops, which have been in the market for about 20 years, is suitable for children with progressive myopia.
they come in different dosages and concentrations and need to be prescribed by an eye doctor.
"normally, we monitor a child's myopia degree closely and start the eye drops when we notice a rapid increase in myopia," says dr pang.
"parents who are more proactive may choose to start the eye drops at the first sign of myopia so that they may commence myopia control as early as they can.
"it is found to be effective in reducing myopia progression by 50 to 70 per cent.
some users may complain of glare from bright light, but this can be overcome by using transition lenses.
as with all treatments, every child responds differently.
"it is important that parents know this to avoid disappointment, and also to know that good eye habits are important, even on treatment," says prof chia.
"for every 20 minutes spent using a screen, children should look away at an object that is at least 20 feet (6m) away for at least 20 seconds," says ms kathy park, president of essilor ophthalmics company for asean and south korea.
videre eyecare's optometrist jaycob chin says kids should not be using smartphones when they are taking a break from their study on a laptop.
this does not give their eyes the rest that they need.
children should play outdoors for at least two hours a day, says ms park.
when they play outdoors, they are exposed to natural sunlight and can focus their eyes at further distances, which helps to relax the eye muscles.
ophthalmologist claudine pang, founder and medical director of asia retina eye surgery centre, says it is important for kids to have sufficient sleep to prevent eye strain.
get them to turn in early before the urge to rub their eyes sets in.
schedule eye checks every six months to monitor if your child's eyesight has deteriorated.
try to stick to the appointments so that your child's myopia can be managed better.
experts suggest setting limits to screen time outside of online lessons.
as a guide, the american academy of pediatrics advocates no screen time for kids under two years old; an hour a day for those aged between two and five; and consistent limits on screen time for those over six.
the spectacle frames are just as important as the lenses.
when the lenses are not fitted on the face correctly, their focus areas do not correspond to the child's line of sight.
as such, the spectacles do not treat the myopia adequately and may exacerbate its progression, says dr pang.
keeping in mind a child's active lifestyle, ms park says the ideal frame should be light, flexible and preferably with adjustable nose pads.
its material should also be resistant to sweat and corrosion.
get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore the multi-ministry task force is reviewing the timing and scope of the second stage of the economy's reopening, in the light of the emergence of a major covid-19 cluster in bukit merah and other new covid-19 cases, finance minister lawrence wong said on wednesday (june 16).
in an instagram and facebook post, mr wong noted that singapore is now in the first stage of its reopening following the phase two (heightened alert) restrictions, and that a further relaxation of the rules was due to take place on june 21, including allowing for dining in.
"unfortunately we now have new cases breaking out and a major new cluster in bukit merah.
given these developments, we are evaluating the timing and scope of the next stage of reopening.
the multi-ministry task force is studying the situation carefully with public health experts, and will provide further updates soon," said mr wong in his post.
"day by the day, we are seeing (that) the number of unlinked cases the cryptic cases in the community are likely to be rising too," he noted.
mr wong acknowledged that this is a difficult period for everyone in singapore.
"i want to assure all of you that we are doing our very best to control the infection, and we want to ensure that we do not have another flare-up, before we reach sufficiently high levels of vaccination in our community.
"singapore had planned to ease restrictions in two stages following a steady drop in the number of covid-19 cases in the community.
from monday (june 14) people were able to gather in groups of up to five, and should the situation remain under control, a further relaxation of the rules including permitting dining in at food and beverage outlets may take place a week later, on june 21. the closure of bukit merah view market and food centre was extended to june 26 on tuesday, after nine more cases were linked to the cluster, taking the total number of linked cases to 25. the centre has been closed since sunday and was originally meant to reopen on wednesday.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
two centuries-old shipwrecks packed with ceramics and other artefacts have been found off singapore in a rare discovery that will shed light on the city-state's maritime heritage, archaeologists said wednesday.
the prosperous island nation has long been a key trading hub on global shipping routes connecting the indian ocean and the south china sea.
the wrecks were found off pedra branca, a rocky outcrop east of singapore, according to the national heritage board and think tank the iseas-yusof ishak institute, which worked together on the project.
the first wreck, discovered after divers accidentally came across ceramic plates in 2015, was carrying chinese ceramics that possibly date back to the 14th century, when singapore was known as temasek.
some of the items were similar to artefacts found in archaeological digs on land, which showed that singapore was a trading hub well before the arrival of british colonisers in 1819. undersea excavations on the first wreck led to the discovery of the second, which is likely to be the shah munchah, a merchant vessel built in india that sank in 1796 while sailing from china to india.
items recovered from the second wreck ranged from chinese ceramics to glass and agate objects, as well anchors and cannons, the heritage board and think tank said.
the survey and recovery of artefacts from the two wrecks was completed this year.
such cannons were typically mounted on merchant ships used by the east india company --- the trading behemoth through which the british empire expanded in asia -- in the 18th and 19th centuries, they added.
the vessel discovered in 2015 was the first ancient shipwreck to be found in singapore's waters.
it was carrying "more yuan dynasty blue-and-white porcelain than any other documented shipwreck in the world," said michael flecker, a visiting fellow at the iseas-yusof ishak institute's archaeology unit.
"many of the pieces are rare, and one is believed to be unique.
"the yuan dynasty existed in what is now china in the 13th and 14th centuries.
much of the chinese cargo in the second wreck was destined for eventual shipping to britain, said flecker.
mba/sr/qanbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two shipwrecks one dating possibly to the 14th century and the other to the 18th have been excavated within singapore's waters a first for the nation and a ground-breaking development for its maritime heritage.
both wrecks, bearing chinese ceramics as their primary cargo, were found in the waters off pedra branca, a rocky outcrop surrounded by shallow waters where ships throughout history have come to grief.
the plan is to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year.
maritime archaeologist michael flecker, who supervised both excavations, described the first wreck as a "pretty remarkable" find, as it is contemporary with the temasek period that spans the 1300s to 1600s.
while research may never reveal the exact vessel that sank, as no remnants of its hull remain, the second wreck has been identified as the india-built merchant vessel shah munchah.
it sank in 1796 as it was returning to india from china.
it all started with an accident.
a singapore-registered barge carrying two bulk loader cranes encountered bad weather while on its way to kuantan and ran aground at pedra branca on dec 30, 2014. the two cranes were at risk of toppling onto pedra branca's famous horsburgh lighthouse, which was built in 1851. to prevent this from happening, dynamite was attached to the two cranes, and they were blown up while two boats pulled them away from the lighthouse, scattering metal into the sea.
commercial divers were then hired to clear the area of these scraps.
it was while diving to retrieve the scraps in 2015 that mr ramdzan salim, a project manager, and mr ahmad qamarulhazman, a diver, stumbled across stacks of old ceramic plates, said dr michael flecker, a visiting fellow at the iseas yusof ishak institute's archaeology unit.
at around the same time, a 10-week-long archaeological dig was being carried out at a site in empress place.
the divers, while following media coverage of the findings, realised that some plates retrieved near pedra branca looked very similar to artefacts retrieved in empress place, and decided to hand over the plates to the institute for further research and safekeeping.
a large longquan bowl recovered from the first shipwreck.
photo: national heritage board

some plates retrieved near pedra branca looked very similar to artefacts retrieved from an archaeological dig at empress place.
photo: national heritage board
upon the institute's confirmation that the plates were high-quality celadon ceramics dated to the 14th century, the national heritage board (nhb) partnered the institute to conduct a survey at the pedra branca site, discovering a shipwreck in 2016. following the end of excavation works for the first shipwreck, nhb and iseas conducted a survey around pedra branca and uncovered a second shipwreck dating to the late 18th century.
efforts were then made to excavate this shipwreck between 2019 and 2021. the first wreck was located about 100m north-west of the island, the nhb and iseas announced on wednesday (june 16).
the second wreck was found 300m east of pedra branca.
in an interview with the straits times about the historic finds, dr flecker said various chinese ceramics formed a large majority of the haul from the first wreck, with some matching those previously excavated in mainland singapore.
for instance, longquan greenware dishes from the first wreck match those that had been unearthed earlier at fort canning, with both bearing a double fish motif.
"from fort canning, there is a plate that is so similar you might almost be tempted to think they used the same stamp (to produce the motif)," said dr flecker, a visiting fellow at iseas.
while research is ongoing, dr flecker said the find would be especially significant if it could be proven that the vessel was going to call at singapore something he believes to be true.
ceramics from the wreck are also similar to those excavated at empress place in 2015, and more research will be done to improve existing knowledge on maritime trading history in the region during the 14th century.
dr flecker, who has about 30 years of maritime archaeology experience, added that the yuan blue-and-white ceramic haul from the first wreck is also the largest that has been recovered from a shipwreck to date.
"there's only been three other (wreck) sites with yuan blue-and-white porcelain anywhere in the world, and in much smaller quantities," he said, adding that it was clear from the primary cargo of both vessels chinese ceramics that they were loaded in china.
the shah munchah wreck site yielded a much wider range of artefacts, from instruments to cannon.
among the surprising finds were percussion instruments, including a tambourine and a coconut shaker with a handle, said dr flecker.
wooden frame parasols, metal betel nut cutters and a myriad of figurines were also retrieved by divers.
the shah munchah wreck site yielded a wider range of artefacts, including glass bottle stopper, metal betal nut cutters, medallions and figurines.
photos: national heritage board
the heaviest finds were four anchors as long as 5m and weighing 2.
5 tonnes each and nine cannon, which required a craned vessel to remove them from the seabed.
dr flecker said the anchors were designed in the admiralty style, adding: "they are suitable for very large sailing vessels so it's a good find and it's well worth getting them up for conservation.
"the nine cannon, which dr flecker described as a "representative set" of what was used then, were typically mounted on ships employed by the east india company in the 18th and early 19th centuries, and used for defence as well as signalling.
a cannon from the site of the shah munchah shipwreck is lifted on board.
photo: iseas yusof ishak institute
artefacts are currently being stored at facilities managed by both nhb and iseas, where they will be cleaned, conserved and catalogued.
about the shah munchah, dr flecker said: "had she survived another 23 years, she would almost certainly have called at the re-established port of singapore.
"her incredibly diverse cargo provides great insights into the type of goods that would have been exchanged and purchased by the new inhabitants of this fledgling city. "
an assortment of articles retrieved from a may 22 dive include blue-and-white porcelain jarlets (back) and glass beads (on bowl).
st photo: gin tay
the two historical shipwrecks are the first to be found within singapore's waters, and will contribute to a better understanding of the nation's maritime past.
as there were no claims to the wrecks and their artefacts at the end of the stipulated notice period of a month, they have been claimed by singapore.
although it is very likely there are more wrecks on the seabed in singapore's waters, some of these have been covered by reclamation, while heavy maritime traffic in the singapore strait makes locating others a hazard.
nhb's director of heritage research and assessment yeo kirk siang said: "as an island that has been serving as the gateway to asia for centuries, singapore today is the legacy of our rich maritime heritage.
in a storage facility, encrustations are removed from an artefact.
iseas yusof ishak institute
"we will continue to research the significance of the artefacts and find ways to promote the knowledge, so as to enable more people to learn about them and singapore's maritime history.
"nhb plans to display the artefacts in museums here from the end of this year, while iseas will likely publish findings progressively in reports and research papers.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
shaffiq alkhatibthe straits timesjun 14, 2021a former part-time taxi driver was sentenced on monday (june 14) to 13 months' jail for molesting a female passenger in 2019. in april this year, district judge john ng convicted haji mohamed yusoof a.  p.  m.  adam, now 56, of one count of molestation following a trial.
the 30-year-old victim cannot be named due to a gag order to protect her identity.
lawyer raphael louis, who represents yusoof, earlier told the straits times that his client is a truck driver who was a part-time taxi driver at the time of the offence.
he added that yusoof is no longer holding that part-time job.
during the trial, the court heard that after a drinking session with friends, the woman boarded the taxi on jan 5, 2019, before she fell asleep in the rear seat.
deputy public prosecutor (dpp) benedict chan stated in his submissions that yusoof molested the victim after the taxi arrived at a carpark in lorong ah soo near upper paya lebar road at around 5.
20am.
the dpp added that the woman woke up and shouted at yusoof after feeling his hands on her body.
yusoof then returned to the driver's seat and dropped her off at her intended destination a short distance away, said dpp chan.
the woman later lodged a police report, the court heard.
yusoof claimed that he did not touch the victim, saying he tried to wake her up by calling out to her after the taxi reached the carpark.
he also stated that he later alighted from the vehicle, opened the rear passenger door and called out to her again.
she then woke up, he claimed.
in delivering his verdict in april, judge ng noted that yusoof and the woman had given different accounts of the incident.
there were also no other witnesses present.
the judge found the woman to be a truthful witness and that her evidence was cogent and reliable.
he, however, found that yusoof was evasive.
on monday, the court heard that yusoof intends to appeal against his conviction and sentence.
his bail has been set at $10,000.
offenders convicted of molestation can be jailed for up to two years and fined or caned.
yusoof cannot be caned because he is over 50 years old.
get a copy of the straits times or go to straitstimes.
com for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
human rights watch found sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017last modified on wed 16 jun 2021 01.
39 edtsouth korea's epidemic of online sexual abuse has left survivors traumatised for life, and is adversely affecting all women and girls in the country, according to a new report.
molka – the use of hidden cameras to film or share explicit images of women without their consent – is forcing victims to contemplate suicide or to consider quitting their jobs or leaving the country, human rights watch (hrw) said in the report, my life is not your porn: digital sex crimes in south korea.
the trauma is worsened by encounters with unsympathetic police and courts, the us-based organisation said, and called on the government to introduce harsher penalties and educate men and boys about the dangers of consuming abusive images online.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared, in south korea that they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," heather barr, hrw's interim director of women' rights, said on wednesday.
barr, who authored the report, added: "women and girls told us they avoided using public toilets and felt anxious about hidden cameras in public and even in their homes.
an alarming number of survivors of digital sex crimes said they had considered suicide.
"officials in the legal justice system – most of whom are men – often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes.
"the report, based on 38 interviews and an online survey involving hundreds of women, said sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017, according to data from the korean institute of criminology.
in 2008, fewer than 4% of prosecutions involved molka, but that had risen to 20% – almost 7,000 cases – by 2017.
"digital sex crimes are an urgent crisis for south korean women and girl," said lina yoon, a senior researcher in hrw's asia division.
the crime is having a "devastating impact" on women, yoon added.
"police take the issue lightly because there is no physical contact involved.
they don't realise how terrifying it can be. "
the sharing of covert photos and video online means the crime "never ends for the survivors," she said.
"it stays with them throughout their lives.
"oh soo-jin* was a 20-year-old student when she agreed to pose nude for a part-time modelling job.
despite reassurances in her contract that the photographs would remain private, more than 700 images of her appeared on a website after she quit because her boss had demanded more sexually explicit images.
more photographs of oh appeared – even after she sought help from the police – leading her to contemplate suicide.
"i'm quite afraid for my future," she said.
"[the images] are going to always be on someone's computer, and i don't know when this will stop.
i thought that if this can't stop, then i want to stop my life.
"barr said most women who reported digital sex crimes had "terrible experiences" with the police, with some saying they had been mocked or told they would never find a marriage partner.
while upskirting and other non-consensual sexual imagery is now a global problem, it has taken hold quickly in south korea, where perpetrators take advantage of the near-ubiquitous use of mobile devices and the world's fastest internet speeds.
the president, moon jae-in, called for police to investigate the growing number of digital sex crimes after mass demonstrations in seoul gained global attention in 2018. in 2020, however, perpetrators receive a fine or a suspended sentence, or both, in 79% of cases.
"it is not at all proportionate to the harm that has been done," barr said.
a year earlier, prosecutors dropped 43.
5% of digital sex crime cases compared to 27.
7% of homicide cases and 19% of robbery cases, although the sex crime cases that were prosecuted usually ended in a conviction, the report said.
hrw said the government needed to introduce tougher penalties for offenders, increase the number of female police officers, prosecutors, and judges, and address south korea's poor record on gender inequality.
* name has been changed international helplines can be found at www.
befrienders.
org.
in the uk and ireland, samaritans can be contacted on 116 123 or email jo@samaritans.
org or jo@samaritans.
ie.
in the us, the national suicide prevention lifeline is at 800-273-8255 and online chat is also available.
you can also text home to 741741 to connect with a crisis text line counselor.
in australia, the crisis support service lifeline is 13 11 14.
submitted by stomper randythis story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
this story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
a 28-year-old man was arrested over a fight in hougang that left another man injured.
in response to a stomp query, the police said they were alerted to a case of voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon at block 702 hougang avenue 2 on june 9, at 12.
16am.
"a 30-year-old man was conscious when taken to hospital," they added.
"a 28-year-old man was arrested in relation to the case.
"stomper randy shared photos of the incident that were posted on facebook.
according to shin min daily news, the altercation occurred at a carpark, near a void deck where a funeral wake was taking place.
residents reported hearing the two men, who are acquainted, in a loud argument.
the suspect had allegedly rushed into the void deck and asked the mourning family if he could 'borrow' a pair of scissors that was on a table.
despite their refusal, the suspect took the scissors and went back to the carpark, where the stabbing took place.
police were then called.
a resident in the vicinity, ms li, said that the assailant continued to rain blows on his victim, who had fallen to the ground.
the suspect was seen picking up a bamboo pole and waving it in the middle of the road before he fled, reported shin min.
he was subsequently arrested after the police traced his whereabouts.
police investigations are ongoing.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
news corp is a network of leading companies in the worlds of diversified media, news, education, and information services.
a malaysian court has overturned a ruling by the coroner in the inquest into the death of irish teenager noirin quoirin and declared an open verdict.
the body the 15-year-old, who had learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and sought to have the ruling revised to an open verdict -- suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan this morning handed down his ruling at 9am irish time at the high court in seremban, outside kuala lumpur, via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
he said it is unlikely that nora left their residence at the dusun resort by herself, navigated the challenging terrain and evaded detection for six days during an extensive search and rescue operation.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
she said: "the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents.
"malaysian police have stuck to their version of events -- that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
cyclist, 22, left for dead after being hit by car has 'life changing' injuries co down diplomat's shock as same-sex wed ceremony seen by 20 million people keane mocked by pundits over 'captain's armband' jumper worn for france win woman whose late ­husband built home with mica bricks says he'd be devastated©news group newspapers limited in england no.
679215 registered office: 1 london bridge street, london, se1 9gf.
"the sun", "sun", "sun online" are registered trademarks or trade names of news group newspapers limited.
this service is provided on news group newspapers' limited's standard terms and conditions in accordance with our privacy & cookie policy.
to inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit our syndication site.
view our online press pack.
for other inquiries contact us.
to see all content on the sun, please use the site map.
the sun website is regulated by the independent press standards organisation (ipso)
advertisementsupported bybret stephensby bret stephensopinion columnistisrael's new government must be a puzzle for anyone who thinks of the jewish state as a racist, fascistic, apartheid enterprise.
issawi frej is arab and muslim and used to work for the peace now movement.
now he's israel's minister for regional cooperation.
pnina tamano-shata is black: the mossad rescued her, along with thousands of other ethiopian jews, from hunger and persecution when she was a small child.
she's the minister for immigration and absorption.
nitzan horowitz is the first openly gay man to lead an israeli political party.
he's the health minister.
at least one deputy minister, as yet unnamed, is expected to be a member of the raam party, which is an outgrowth of the major islamist political group in israel.
as for benjamin netanyahu, "king bibi" has finally left office — churlishly, bitterly, pompously — but in keeping with the normal democratic process.
he faces criminal indictments in multiple cases.
his immediate predecessor as prime minister, ehud olmert, spent 16 months in prison on corruption charges.
it's some fascist state that subjects its leaders to the rule of law and the verdicts of a court.
meanwhile, mahmoud abbas, president of the palestinian authority, "postponed" elections in april.
he's in the 17th year of his elected four-year term of office.
a new government, even one as fragile and fractious as israel's, is always an opportunity for a course correction.
but the course correction israel most needs is not the one its critics generally suppose.
netanyahu lasted in office as long as he did not because israelis wanted a strongman or someone who would crush the palestinians.
he lasted because he was, in many ways, good at the job.
over his 12 continuous years in office, the israeli economy roughly doubled in size.
last year's abraham accords brought the overarching arab-israeli conflict to a near conclusion, even if the israeli-palestinian conflict remains unsolved.
despite periodic battles with hamas, there were no all-out wars.
israelis were more secure in their persons during the netanyahu years than they had been in the decade prior.
and israel's covid-19 vaccination campaign was the envy of the world.
against iran, israel conducted arguably the most successful covert-ops campaign in modern history.
with respect to palestinians, netanyahu avoided both the territorial concessions demanded by the left and the re-occupation of gaza desired by the extreme right.
toward the united states, netanyahu defied barack obama and got what he wanted from donald trump: the american embassy in jerusalem, recognition of israeli sovereignty in the golan heights, and u. s.  withdrawal from the 2015 iran nuclear deal.
none of this may square with the wishes of western elites or progressives, whose obsession is for a palestinian state.
but what israelis wanted in the last election wasn't a palestinian state, which is a good idea in theory but (for now) a terrible idea in practice.
what israelis want is a better form of politics, the one area in which netanyahu conspicuously failed.
it's a politics freed of his habits of demagogy, vilification, sleaziness and sheer pettiness — a politics that ultimately brought him down.
that's the promise of the new government.
it's led by naftali bennett, a right-winger and former director of the settlers' council who is the first religiously observant orthodox jew to be prime minister.
it's anchored by yair lapid, a centrist and former tv journalist who epitomizes secular israel.
it got into power thanks to the support of the raam party's mansour abbas, a religiously conservative muslim who has implicitly given a stamp of endorsement to a government whose policies — especially toward palestinians — he surely opposes.
it includes members who are to the right of likud and to the left of labor.
it's difficult to think of any coalition government, in any country, that is as ideologically diverse.
it's also easy to suppose that nothing holds it together beyond shared loathing of netanyahu, who remains leader of the opposition.
it wouldn't take much to bring the new government down and return him to power.
but there is also an opportunity in the new government, and it holds lessons for other western democracies gripped by partisanship and paralysis.
nearly all members of the new coalition had to sacrifice a point of political or moral principle, break ranks with some of their own constituents and get branded as traitors to their respective movements in order to make this coalition possible.
they are ideological turncoats, at least to those who think of ideological purity as a virtue.
being willing to abandon a ferocious conviction for the sake of a pragmatic compromise used to be considered a virtue in democracy.
ideological treason can also be a form of civic patriotism.
in what's supposed to be one of the free world's most factionalized, tribalized, internally divided countries — jews, arabs, secular, national-religious, ultra-orthodox, mizrahi, russian, druze and so on — an israeli government is giving civic nationalism a go.
it may or may not work.
but like so much else in israel, it deserves more respect than it is likely to get.
the times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor.
we'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles.
here are some tips.
and here's our email: letters@nytimes.
com.
follow the new york times opinion section on facebook, twitter (@nytopinion) and instagram.
advertisement
a north korean defector is claiming that the united states's future "is as bleak as north korea" after she attended an ivy league university.
"even north korea is not this nuts," north korean defector yeonmi park said of her experience at columbia university.
"north korea was pretty crazy, but not this crazy.
"the 27-year-old park said she transferred to columbia from a south korean university in 2016, but her experience at the school left her disturbed.
"i expected that i was paying this fortune, all this time and energy, to learn how to think.
but they are forcing you to think the way they want you to think," park said.
"i realized, wow, this is insane.
i thought america was different, but i saw so many similarities to what i saw in north korea that i started worrying.
"student government recuses presidential search committee member because of his conservative viewsone such similarity park noticed was an anti-western sentiment, but she also noted that other red flags, such as collective guilt and extreme political correctness, were also pervasive at the school.
in one instance, park said she was "scolded" by a staff member for saying she enjoyed classic literature such as jane austen.
"i said, 'i love those books. '
i thought it was a good thing," park said.
"then, she was like, 'did you know that those writers, who had a colonial mindset, were racists and bigots who wrote those books?
so they are subconsciously brainwashing you.
'"park noted that such incidents were not isolated, as every class she took at the school contained the kind of anti-american propaganda she had grown up with as a young student in north korea.
"'american bastard' was one word for north koreans," park said she was taught growing up.
"the math problems would say, 'there are four american bastards, you kill two of them, how many american bastards are left to kill?
'"the north korean defector was also confused about issues related to gender and language, recalling how every class would require students to tell the class their preferred pronouns.
"english is my third language.
i learned it as an adult.
i sometimes [still] say 'he' or 'she' by mistake, and now they are going to ask me to call them 'they'?
how the heck do i incorporate that in my sentences?"
park asked.
"it was chaos," park continued.
"it felt like the regression in civilization.
"park said she used to engage professors and fellow students in debates and arguments but learned quickly "how to just shut up" so she could maintain her grades and gpa.
she noted that as she was growing up in north korea, she had no concept of love and liberty.
park took aim at students who told stories of being oppressed, arguing they did not know what real oppression looks like.
"because i have seen oppression, i know what it looks like," park said, noting she had seen 13 people die of starvation.
"these kids keep saying how they're oppressed, how much injustice they've experienced .
.
.
they don't know how hard it is to be free," she continued.
"i literally crossed through the middle of the gobi desert to be free.
but what i did was nothing, so many people fought harder than me and didn't make it.
"park and her mother originally fled north korea when she was 13 years old, attempting to cross china's frozen yalu river when they were caught by human traffickers who sold them into slavery.
park was sold for less than $300, while her mother was sold for about $100.
christian missionaries later helped park and her mother flee mongolia, after which they made the trek across the gobi desert to reach south korea.
park published a memoir in 2015, titled in order to live, in which she describes her ordeal fleeing from one of the most oppressive regimes in the world.
"the people here are just dying to give their rights and power to the government.
that is what scares me the most," park said.
she believes america's educational institutions are now stripping their students of the ability to think critically, something she compared to her educational experiences in north korea.
"in north korea, i literally believed that my dear leader [kim jong un] was starving," park said.
"he's the fattest guy — how can anyone believe that?
and then, somebody showed me a photo and said, 'look at him, he's the fattest guy.
other people are all thin. '
and i was like, 'oh my god, why did i not notice that he was fat?'
because i never learned how to think critically.
""that is what is happening in america," she continued.
"people see things, but still they've just completely lost the ability to think critically.
"park pointed out that she did not grow up with the wealth of information americans have access to on the internet, yet argued even with such access, americans now "choose to be brainwashed.
""north koreans, we don't have internet, we don't have access to any of these great thinkers, we don't know anything.
but here, while having everything, people choose to be brainwashed.
and they deny it," park said.
while she at one time had high hopes and expectations for life in the u. s. , park now says her experiences have left her worried about the country's future.
"you guys have lost common sense to [a] degree that i as a north korean cannot even comprehend," park said.
click here to read more from the washington examiner"where are we going from here?"
she asked.
"there's no rule of law, no morality, nothing is good and bad anymore, it's complete chaos.
""i guess that's what they want.
eventually, they want to destroy every single thing and then rebuild into a communist paradise maybe," she concluded.
washington examiner videostags: news, critical race theory, columbia university, north korea, college, kim jong unoriginal author: michael leeoriginal location: north korea defector says 'even north korea is not this nuts' after attending ivy league university: 'complete chaos' beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
singapore: two historic shipwrecks and their artefacts – including chinese ceramics from as far back as the 14th century – have been discovered within singapore's territorial waters around pedra branca island, located at the easternmost point of singapore.
in 2015, several ceramic plates were discovered by accident by commercial divers involved in a maritime operation, which led to the discovery of the first historic shipwreck about 100m to the north-west of pedra branca.
one year later, the national heritage board (nhb) commissioned the archaeology unit of the iseas-yusof ishak institute (iseas) to survey and investigate the site, and to conduct excavations to recover wrecks and objects from the shipwreck.
these excavations, which continued until 2019, led to the discovery of a second historic shipwreck about 300m east of pedra branca.
excavations to recover artefacts from the second shipwreck were carried out from 2019 until mid-2021.
artefacts recoveredthe two shipwrecks originated from different periods, according to iseas' findings.
the first shipwreck contained chinese ceramics and may date back to the 14th century, a time when singapore was known as temasek, the research stated.
some of the key finds include longquan dishes and bowls, and a jarlet.
fragments of blue-and-white porcelain bowls with lotus and peony motifs from the yuan dynasty were also found in the shipwreck.
this ship carried more of these blue-and-white porcelain than "any other documented shipwreck in the world," said dr michael flecker, a visiting fellow and project director of maritime archaeology projects at iseas.
"many of the pieces are rare, and one is believed to be unique," he said.
iseas' research also noted that direct parallels can be made between the finds from the first shipwreck and those from archaeological excavations at empress place conducted in 2015 and from past excavations at fort canning park.
the second shipwreck, noted iseas' research, is likely to be the shah munchah, a merchant vessel that sank while voyaging from china back to india in 1796. artefacts recovered from this shipwreck include a range of chinese ceramics and non-ceramic artefacts, such as copper-alloy, glass sand agate objects, as well as four anchors and nine cannons of the ship.
the cannons were typically mounted on merchant ships employed by the east india company during the 18th and early 19th centuries, and used mostly for defensive purposes and signalling.
among the key non-ceramic finds in the second shipwreck were a jar shard depicting a dragon motif; an earthenware duck; figurines of guanyin's head, happy buddha and a boy of good fortune; figurines of a dog and mythical sea creature makara; a figurine of a chinese couple holding fans on a biscuit base; and a qingbai figurine of a horse with a side-saddle rider.
"had the ship survived another 23 years, she would almost certainly have called at the re-established port of singapore.
her incredibly diverse cargo provides great insights into the type of goods that would have been exchanged and purchased by the new inhabitants of this fledging city," said dr flecker.
next steps: conservation and historical significanceafter the removal of salt via the process of desalination, the artefacts have to be meticulously cleaned, conserved and catalogued.
in-depth research and documentation will also need to be carried out.
once the conservation, research and documentation have been completed, nhb will work towards exhibiting the artefacts in its museums from end-2021.
archaeological reports and research might also be published by iseas.
the institute might also conduct talks for members of the public.
mr yeo kirk siang, director of nhb's heritage research and assessment, told cna that the discoveries are "significant" in unveiling singapore's history.
"what is significant about it is it unveils part of our history before 1819.  that part is little known so far.
with every find, it enriches our understanding.
singapore's history is clearly connected to our maritime trade – in the past and even today," he said.
"understanding our maritime history helps us understand singapore's relations, our context and our place in the world, our geographic location, why it's important, what's the reason for our existence, and what's the reason for our success.
"if we can understand our past, it gives us a more grounded understanding of the world that we live in today," he added.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
new footage from the wuhan institute of virology in china has revealed that live bats were kept in cages despite the who's claims that such a possibility was a "conspiracy", reigniting a debate on the origins of the coronavirus.
the infamous lab is at the center of a theory that covid-19 wasn't, as many scientists believe, transmitted from bats to people via an unknown intermediary, but was instead leaked, intentionally or not, from the institute.
a joint investigation by the world health organisation (who) and china into the origins of the disease had called the chance of a laboratory leak "extremely unlikely" and the idea that bats were held at the institute "an error", the nz herald reported.
"no bats were sent to wuhan lab for genetic analysis of viruses collected in the field.
that's not how this science works.
we collect bat samples, send them to the lab.
we release bats where we catch them," a member of the who team, zoologist dr peter daszak, wrote in a december tweet.
also read | whether or not covid-19 virus leaked from lab, pathogens as weapons of mass destruction real threat"this is a widely circulated conspiracy theory.
this piece describes work i'm the lead on and labs i've collaborated with for 15 years," he wrote in another.
"they do not have live or dead bats in them.
there is no evidence anywhere that this happened.
it's an error i hope will be corrected.
"earlier this month, daszak appeared to walk back his earlier denials, writing on twitter that the who team had not asked the institute if they housed bats.
while the lab leak theory has recently gained traction – despite no new scientific evidence – the prospect that covid-19 jumped from bats into humans via an intermediate animal, a process known as "zoonosis", still remains the more likely scenario, experts have said.
on tuesday, the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by us president joe biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fueled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones — including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans — in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells.
"but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
read all the latest news, breaking news and coronavirus news herecoca-cola lost a staggering $5.
2 billion thanks to cristiano ronaldo at euro 2020.  watch the viral moment here.
the country on wednesday reported 62,224 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, according to the health ministry.
the country's total covid-19 caseload now stands at 29.
63 million, while total fatalities are at 379,573 with 2,542 deaths overnight.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the central agencies want to ascertain whether there exists any chinese conspiracy angle to this fraud.
london [uk], june 15 (ani): as the controversy around fugitive diamantaire mehul choksi's disappearance from antigua refuses to die down, a uk-based law firm looking after the case has released images and videos on monday claiming that he was kidnapped from antigua.
desi twitter is experiencing waves of nostalgia in the latest trend, a throwback to mosaic flooring in middle-class households.
find furniture you love, at prices that fit your budget with flexible financing.
people have a lot of faith in the prime minister as opposed to the chief ministers, despite claims to the contrary.
the therapy, azd7442, was 33% effective in reducing the risk of people developing symptoms compared with a placebo, but that result was not statistically significant.
.
new delhi, jun 15 (pti) a pan-india 'fraud-to-phone' network has been busted by security agencies, which have also arrested eight people and seized nearly 300 new mobile phones bought with stolen funds, officials said on tuesday.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
new delhi (reuters) -having barely got over a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections, india was gripped with alarm on tuesday over risks of a resurgence as crowds thronged railway stations and shopping malls a day after major cities relaxed curbs on movement.
the capital new delhi, in the north, and tech hub bengaluru, in the south, were among the cities that have begun lifting strict lockdowns as the nationwide tally of new infections  dropped to its lowest level in more than two months.
after a strict five-week lockdown, authorities in delhi have fully re-opened shops and malls, and allowed restaurants to have 50% seating.
cashew nut trees are native to brazil but have been cultivated all over the world.
like most nuts, cashews have several health benefits and can be easily tweaked into dishes.
in addition, they are also used as an alternative to dairy products in the form of cashew milk, cashew-based cheese, and cream.
here, we cover the various health benefits of cashews.
a speedy vaccination programme could compensate for the government's initial laxity displayed in covid managementthis new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
a look back at the two weeks of french open which crowned novak djokovic and barbora krejcikova as the men's and women's champions.
the men allegedly forced him to chant jai sri ram, cut saifi's beard and assaulted him for 4 hours in loni.
likely to be priced at rs 1,114 per dose in india, novavax vaccine will be a two-dose jab like the other vaccinesso mad that i just learned this.
.
.
in the last few years, nearly 800,000 rohingya have fled from myanmarafter coming to power in bengal in 2011, mamata, besides working on governance, has also created more space for youngsters in the party.
apple reportedly aims to provide a non-invasive solution to check blood sugar levels without pricking the skin.
search for scalp psoriasis treatment options.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than evera 62-year-old woman died allegedly after being stabbed 20 times by a man who also sexually assaulted her in east delhi's dallupura village.
hyderabad (telangana) [india], june 15 (ani): oracle india head and his wife were booked for cheating customers by collecting huge advance amounts for the projects using the goodwill of the oracle company, informed the police on tuesday.
tibet is heavily restricted to foreign journalists who have little chance to visit a sensitive region that beijing says it 'peacefully liberated' in 1951.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore dickson yeo had approached various people in singapore, relying heavily on social networking platforms to reach out to them and gather information at the behest of a foreign country, said the internal security department (isd).
he had also attempted to find jobs in a range of positions in the government, thinking that he could access information of interest to his foreign handlers.
however, the department's investigations showed that no classified government information pertaining to singapore had been compromised as a result of yeo's activities, a spokesman told the straits times on tuesday (june 15).
earlier in the day, the agency overseeing domestic security announced that yeo had been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for acting as a paid agent of a foreign state.
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29. responding to queries from the straits times, the department said yeo was tasked by his foreign handlers to gather information on a wide range of subjects, primarily global and regional geo-political issues and developments.
"he had relied heavily and successfully on social networking platforms to reach out to individuals with the relevant expertise, knowledge and access.
he had pitched taskings to his resource persons as 'research topics' for his various foreign clients.
"the isd said it was unable to provide further details on the professions of these individuals or the number of persons involved.
the agency also said that yeo had tried to gain employment in a range of positions in the public sector positions and agencies he believed would allow him access to information of interest to his foreign handlers.
it added that it could not provide specific details of these jobs, citing operational and security reasons.
people looking to join the public sector in positions that require access to classified information will have to undergo security clearance, the isd said.
several factors are taken into consideration in this process, including the nature of the work and the sensitivity of the information dealt with.
"security checks will vary for different positions which have different levels of access to confidential information," the department added.
yeo's path to being a spy started during a trip to beijing in 2015, when he was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) at the national university of singapore at the time.
when news of yeo's activities broke after he pleaded guilty in a us court last july, the school terminated his phd candidature "with immediate effect".
at the time, retired diplomat bilahari kausikan revealed that one of yeo's former professors at the school was huang jing until 2017, when the academic was expelled from singapore "for being a chinese agent of influence".
on tuesday, an lkyspp spokesman said the past incidents involving its former staff member and former student show how different sectors in society, including education, can be potential targets for foreign subversion.
the best safeguard against illegal foreign subversion is a community that is aware and vigilant, she added.
the spokesman stressed that the school will not tolerate any acts or activities of foreign interference that threaten singapore's national security or interests.
its staff and students are also expected to conduct themselves fully in accordance with the laws of singapore at all times.
she added that the school has strengthened its procedures, saying: "we maintain an enhanced oversight on academic collaborations and partnerships, both local and overseas, and will also continue to keep a heightened awareness among all our staff and students on the risks of foreign interference.
"professor joseph liow, dean of the college of humanities, arts and social sciences, and tan kah kee chair in comparative and international politics at nanyang technological university, said of yeo's activities: "academics and researchers should be aware that these sorts of things happen in real life, and are not merely the stuff of spy novels or hollywood movies.
"foreign powers spy all the time, and spying is conducted in many ways, which have evolved with technology, he noted.
and one could say that by virtue of being a very open country, singapore is vulnerable to such activities, added prof liow.
"i wouldn't say that we have to be exceedingly worried about this, but we certainly need to be aware that such things take place, and also be alert to requests that appear unusual," he said.
"it's not happening on a daily basis, and of course our security agencies spend a lot of time making sure such activities don't take place.
but nevertheless as academics, researchers, or just regular citizens, we need to exercise some common sense and be vigilant.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a hawker centre at block 79 telok blangah drive will be closed for deep cleaning after a hawker there tested positive for covid-19.
the ministry of health (moh) had said on monday (june 14) that a 42-year-old singaporean man who is a hawker at the centre had developed body aches on june 12 and a fever on june 13. he sought treatment at singapore general hospital and later tested positive for the coronavirus.
he is a family member of another covid-19 case, a cooking assistant at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre who tested positive on june 13. as at monday, there were 16 cases linked to the bukit merah centre, which is now a covid-19 cluster.
the closure of the telok blangah drive food centre for deep cleaning and disinfection as a result of monday's case was announced in a facebook post by west coast grc mp rachel ong on tuesday night.
she said the national environment agency has been working together with the telok blangah shopkeepers & stallholders association to engage stallholders and assist them with their concerns and enquiries.
the town council has also put up notices at the food centre and neighbouring blocks to inform residents about the situation.
she added: "the safety of our residents and stallholders are our topmost priority and we will continue to work to ensure that the necessary precautions are in place.
.
.
we encourage all residents and friends to monitor your health closely and to see a doctor promptly if you feel unwell.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a malaysian court will rule wednesday on a challenge by the family of a french-irish teenager over an inquest verdict that she died by misadventure after vanishing in the jungle.
the body of nora quoirin, a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and are seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict -- suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan is expected to hand down his ruling at 5:00 pm (0900 gmt) at the high court in seremban, outside kuala lumpur, via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
"the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents," she said.
malaysian police have stuck to their version of events -- that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
bur-sr/hgbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
submitted by stomper randythis story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
this story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
three men, aged between 37 and 50, were arrested over a fight that broke out in geylang in the early hours of sunday (june 13).
responding to a stomp query, the police said they were alerted to a fight along lorong 10 geylang at 12.
51am.
when police officers arrived, there were no longer signs of a fight.
three men were subsequently arrested for affray.
a video posted on facebook shows a brawl breaking out among several men.
a second video shows numerous onlookers observing the dispute, some of whom can be seen recording the incident with their mobile phonespolice investigations are ongoing.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.

by sam cox

3 hours ago47 views from left: lum guo zhan, yang zilin and xu changyu.
image: ntu singaporetiny robots with advanced dexterity and manoeuvrability could have applications in drug delivery and the construction of micro-structures.
scientists at nanyang technological university, singapore have developed tiny robots that can perform precision movements when controlled using magnetic fields.
focused on optimising the millimetre-sized robots' movement in three-dimensional space, the researchers increased the precision of available control capability along the three spatial axes as well as rotating between them (commonly known as roll, pitch and yaw).
of these six degrees of freedom, the new ntu singapore miniature robots are capable of rotating 43 times faster than previous generations in the critical sixth degree of freedom.
using a control computer, scientists can precisely vary the strength and direction of magnetic fields generated by an electromagnetic coil system.
by embedding magnetic microparticles into their miniature robots, ntu singapore researchers could control them through the application of these magnetic fields.
these robots are often no bigger than a grain of rice and may be made from 'soft' materials such as biocompatible polymers.
these materials are non-toxic to humans and are well-suited to integration with the magnetic components.
the researchers highlighted the possible applications of this technology through showcasing a jellyfish-inspired robot capable of swimming in water and squeezing past a tight barrier.
in doing so, they argued the possibility of putting these robots to work in hard-to-reach places, such as surgical procedures in the brain, or drug delivery elsewhere in the body.
another 'gripper robot' assembled a three-dimensional structure in less than five minutes – 20 times faster than previous generations of mini robots.
this was intended to demonstrate a potential application in manufacturing and the establishment of 'micro-factories'.
the research was published in the journal advanced materials in may 2021 and featured as the front cover for its 10 june issue.
lum guo zhan, lead author of the study and assistant professor at the school of mechanical and aerospace engineering in ntu singapore, said the breakthrough came in discovering an "elusive" third and final principal vector of the applied magnetic fields, which is necessary for controlling such machines.
"by fully understanding the physics of these miniature robots, we are now able to accurately control their motions," said lum.
he claimed his team's proposed fabrication method can magnetise mini robots to produce six-degrees-of-freedom torques magnitudes larger than existing devices.
"our findings are therefore pivotal, and they represent a significant advancement for small-scale robotic technologies," lum added.
phd students xu changyu and yang zilin, co-authors of the research, said, "besides surgery, our robots may also be of value in biomedical applications such as assembling lab-on-chip devices that can be used for clinical diagnostics by integrating several laboratory processes on a single chip.
"the research team now aims to make their robots even smaller, on the scale of a few hundred micrometres, and to ultimately make the robots fully autonomous.
related:
                    singapore,             medtech,             engineering,             materials science,             robotics,             research,             manufacturing 
                                                sam cox is a journalist at silicon republic covering sci-tech news                                            editorial@siliconrepublic.
com
31 mar 2021476 views 
2 jun 2021334 views 
23 mar 2021362 views 
5 days ago526 views 
22 hours ago182 views 
2 jun 2021487 views 
32 minutes ago 
41 minutes ago 
1 hour ago 
1 hour ago 
2 hours ago 
3 hours ago 
18 hours ago 
18 hours ago 
20 hours ago 
22 hours ago 
22 hours ago 
23 hours ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago 
1 day ago all content copyright 2002-2021 silicon republic knowledge & events management ltd.  reproduction without explicit permission is prohibited.
all rights reserved.
designed by zero-g and square1.
io
covid-19: there were two cases of hospitalisation linked to vaccines (file).
a government report has, for the first time, acknowledged one death in india due to vaccination.
a 68-year-old man, fully vaccinated, died on march 31 and it has been labelled as "vaccine product related reaction" in a report assessing 31 severe cases reported since the government launched the vaccine drive in january.
the report is by the national adverse events following immunization (aefi) committee under the union health ministry.
of the 31 cases, 28 are deaths.
"this is the first death where causality has been established, with vaccine resulting in an anaphylaxis reaction.
but compared to the overall numbers, only a small number had a severe reaction.
31 cases were investigated and one death was due to vaccine, and among anaphylaxis cases, only two were found to be product-related.
most anaphylaxis reactions are managed," said nk arora, advisor, national aefi committee.
of 31 cases, three cases were reported as "anaphylaxis" or any severe reaction experienced by the person half an hour after the shot.
two of them were hospitalized and discharged but one died.
eighteen cases were found to be unrelated to vaccines and classified as "coincidental".
there were two cases of hospitalisation linked to vaccines.
in seven cases, there is no definite evidence to link the deaths to vaccines.
in the case of two cases, there is not enough information.
"overall, the benefits of vaccination are overwhelmingly greater than the small risk of harm," the health ministry said.
"mere reporting of deaths and hospitalizations as serious adverse events did not automatically imply that the events were caused due to vaccines.
data from the first week of april shows the reporting rate is 2.
7 deaths per million vaccine doses administered and 4.
8 hospitalizations per million vaccine doses administered," the ministry explained.
track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
singapore: singaporean dickson yeo had applied for a range of government jobs to access information that his foreign handlers would be interested in, the internal security department (isd) said on tuesday evening (jun 15).
earlier in the day, isd announced that yeo, 40, had been detained under the internal security act (isa) since jan 29 for acting as a paid agent for a "foreign state".
while isd did not name the foreign state, yeo was last year sentenced to 14 months' prison in the us for spying for china against the us.
isd said on tuesday that yeo carried out intelligence activities against singapore from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019. he was tasked to source for information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
"towards this end, he had approached various individuals in singapore in an attempt to obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports," isd said.
yeo also set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities as well as conducting recruitment for his foreign handlers.
he also tried, but failed, to get a job in the singapore government, isd said.
"yeo had tried to gain employment in a range of positions in the public sector, positions and agencies that he believed would allow him access to information of interest to his foreign handlers," isd said in response to queries from cna.
"we are unable to provide specific details due to operational and security reasons.
"nevertheless, isd said those seeking to join the public sector in positions that require access to classified government information will require security checks.
"several factors are taken into consideration in the conduct of security clearance, including the nature of the work in the position, and the sensitivity of the information that the position deals with," it added.
"security checks will vary for different positions which have different levels of access to confidential information.
for operational reasons, we are unable to go into the specifics.
"classified information not compromisedafter yeo admitted in a us court in july last year to working with chinese intelligence officials to obtain sensitive information from americans, singapore's ministry of home affairs said its investigations into yeo's actions did not reveal any direct threat to singapore's security.
isd explained that this assessment was based on initial information arising from yeo's arrest in the us last year.
"details on the extent of his activities in relation to singapore were surfaced only after his arrest and investigation under the isa following his return to singapore," it stated.
"however, our investigation showed that no classified government information pertaining to singapore had been compromised.
investigations are ongoing.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the leaders pointedly reiterated liberal democracies' commitment to multilateralism, says a foreign affairs observer.
melbourne: what a difference a year makes in international diplomacy.
a year ago, then-us president donald trump was obliged to abandon his plans for a g7 summit at the presidential retreat of camp david outside washington.
various excuses were advanced by participants, including the inadvisability of travelling across the world in the midst of a pandemic.
but in reality few, if any, g7 leaders wanted to associate themselves with trump in what was hoped would be the last days of an ill-starred presidency.
a year later, these same leaders gathered at an english coastal retreat – in the shadow of a persistent covid-19 pandemic – to celebrate the end of a disruptive chapter in diplomatic history.
relief was palpable in the interactions of representatives of the united states, united kingdom, france, germany, japan, italy and canada.
america was back, not in its "america first" guise, but as the proclaimed leader of the free world, to use an old-fashioned description.
however, in the four years of the trump presidency, during which washington effectively abandoned its global leadership role in favour of an inward-looking posture defined by its embrace of an america first doctrine, the world had changed, and shifted dramatically.
in 2016, the final year of the obama administration, the g7 summit in japan focused on the issue of climate in the wake of the paris agreement signed in april of that year.
its other priorities were disputes in the south china sea and, interestingly enough, the need to strengthen a global response to pandemics in light of experiences with the ebola virus in africa.
that global response has been found to be inadequate.
this prompts the question: what notice did global health authorities, principally the world health organization, take of the g7's 2016 communique?china, the primary g7 concernfive years later, the challenges identified in the 2016 document have been vastly magnified.
this has been brought about by a combination of lack of us leadership on issues such as climate, and a broader global failure to manage china's rise.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
in 2016, china's activities in the south china sea in defiance of the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) were a growing concern, as were signs of its increasing assertiveness under its nationalist leader, xi jinping.
but the consensus view then was that china's rise could be accommodated without undue disruption to a rules-based international order.
that has proved a significant miscalculation.
fast-forward to the 2021 g7 in cornwall, where concerns about china's rise in its various dimensions stalked the round-table discussions and bilateral meetings.
no other issue came close to matching worries about china: not climate change, nor the ongoing challenges of the pandemic.
in the end, the g7 communique was relatively restrained on china.
this reflected differences of opinion among participants about how to manage a difficult situation.
the us and canadians would have liked stronger language.
the europeans favoured a less hawkish approach.
japan was somewhere in the middle.
pointed references to chinareferences to china were nevertheless pointed, in contrast to previous g7 communiques, which have danced around the issue of beijing's challenges to a rules-based global order.
from an australian perspective, the communique's reference to china's resort to economic reprisals to punish those who found themselves at odds with its policies will have been welcome:with regard to china, and the competition in the global economy, we will continue to consult on collective approaches to challenging non-market policies and practices which undermine the fair and transparent operation of the global economy.
on human rights, the g7 was commendably forthright:we will promote our values by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration and the basic law.
significantly, taiwan made its way into a g7 communique for the first time.
here, the world's leading democracies issued a fairly blunt warning to beijing not to further destabilise relations across the taiwan strait:we underscore the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, and encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues.
we remain seriously concerned about the situation in the east and south china seas and strongly oppose any unilateral attempt to change the status quo and increase tensions.
predictably, chinese commentators dismissed the g7 process as a sideshow, claiming "the world's economic and political centre of gravity had shifted", as the global times put it.
awkward position for morrisonmorrison, as an official guest, will have been relieved the g7 did not reach a consensus on the timing for a phase-out of coal for generating electric power.
on the other hand, he will not have overlooked strong language in the communique calling for a commitment to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions "as soon as possible".
australia will have had no issue with other g7 initiatives such as calls for a global minimum tax to ensure greater global equity.
nor will it object to a proposal for liberal democracies to contribute to an infrastructure fund to compete with china's belt and road initiative in the developing world.
morrison will no doubt have been disappointed he did not have a "one-on-one" meeting with us president joe biden.
instead, he had to make do with a three-way conversation involving the summit's host, uk prime minister boris johnson.
it is not clear whether this was a snub, but those briefing journalists in advance of the g7 should not have raised expectations.
in one respect, morrison will have found the cornwall g7 awkward.
no other leader of a western liberal democracy had aligned themselves as closely with the trump white house.
in his attempts to position himself alongside trump, morrison echoed the then us president's antagonism towards international institutions, broadly summed up by the morrison's reference to "negative globalism" in a lowy institute speech in 2019. these were sentiments the former us president used to promote his version of an america first policy, in contrast to the multilateralist tendencies of his predecessors.
morrison's adoption of this trumpism, now quietly discarded in his public statements, sits uncomfortably with the new president's emphasis on washington's global leadership in partnership with like-minded countries and institutions.
pointedly, the g7 communique reiterated liberal democracies' commitment to "multilateralism".
if nothing else, australia's prime minister should have concluded in cornwall that his own personal investment in a trump presidency was not the most prudent course.
the world has shifted.
tony walker is vice-chancellor's fellow at la trobe university.
this commentaryfirst appearedon the conversation.
singapore: nine of the 14 new covid-19 cases reported in singapore on tuesday (jun 15) were linked to the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster.
this brings the total number of cases in the cluster to 25. the market, which was slated to reopen on wednesday after being closed since sunday, will now be shut for two weeks until jun 26. explaining the decision, the ministry of health (moh) said that the detection of more cases among employees at the market and their close contacts suggests there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission".
among the nine new cases linked to the market cluster was a pre-school teacher at kidscampus (chai chee).
she is a family member of one of the earlier cases in the cluster, known as case 64218.  moh said she was not quarantined as case 64218 had not reported her as a contact.
other new cases linked to the cluster included three food stall vendors and a sales executive at halnaz frozen goods, who occasionally goes to the company's shop at the market.
the remaining cases linked to the market were a supervisor at keong hong construction, a cleaner employed by sats facility management and two retirees.
unlinked casesfour other cases were unlinked to previous infections.
they included a foreign domestic worker from the philippines who developed a sore throat, cough and loss of smell on jun 14.  the 41-year-old received her first dose of a covid-19 vaccine on may 21. a 30-year-old singaporean woman who works as a sales representative at imperva singapore also tested positive.
she developed a fever and runny nose on jun 14 and sought treatment at a clinic on the same day.
another case involved a 35-year-old singaporean man who is unemployed.
he also developed symptoms of covid-19.
the remaining unlinked case was a 36-year-old singaporean woman.
the homemaker had a fever on jun 8, followed by loss of taste and smell on jun 10 but she did not seek treatment until jun 14. her family member and household contact a 35-year-old singaporean man who works as a senior executive at nets also tested positive on jun 14.  he developed symptoms the day before.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories.
there were also no imported cases reported on tuesday, the first such instance since jun 29, 2020. new locations visited by community casessupermarket outlets at clementi and tanglin halt road, as well as several shopping malls, were among the new locations added to the list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
the full list of new locations is as follows:more cases dischargedseventeen more covid-19 cases have been discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities, taking the total recoveries to 61,911, said moh.
a total of 137 cases are still in hospital, most of whom are stable or improving, with two in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
another 233 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
as of tuesday, singapore has reported a total of 62,315 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities from the disease.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the israeli military said it was "prepared for all scenarios" after it launched airstrikes on gaza in the early hours of june 16, breaking a ceasefire between israel and gaza militant groups.
the israel defense forces said airstrikes were targeting "hamas military complexes" after incendiary balloons were sent into israeli territory.
it was not immediately clear if there were any casualties from the attack in gaza.
the air raid marks the first hostility between israel and gaza militants since a ceasefire came into effect on may 21, ending an 11-day conflict that left 257 palestinians and 12 israelis dead.
tensions rose in the region after a controversial right-wing "flag march" went ahead in jerusalem on june 15.  israeli police said 17 palestinian protesters were arrested, while the palestinian red crescent said at least 33 palestinian protesters were injured in clashes in the city.
credit: israel defense forces via storyfulbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
ever had a nightmare of being eaten alive?
it almost came true for a lobster diver.
michael packard was swallowed by a humpback whale on june 11, off cape cod, massachusetts, when he was diving for lobsters.
after jumping off his vessel and diving 14 meters deep into the sea, he felt a "huge bump and everything went dark around [him]".
he thought he was attacked by a great white shark, which was common around the area, but realised that there were no teeth around him and that he did not feel any pain.
in an interview with cbs boston, he said: "and then i realised: 'oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth and he's trying to swallow me.
this is it, i'm going die'".
he was in the creature's mouth for about 30 seconds, packard said.
the whale then suddenly emerged to the surface, started shaking its head, and spat him out.
packard was then hauled back onto the boat by his crewmate who had been scanning the water for air bubbles from his oxygen respirator.
[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cp_hyf2jhlp/[/embed]despite the scare, the lobster diver said in a facebook post the following day: "i am very bruised up but have no broken bones.
"he only suffered a suspected dislocated knee and bruises on his legs from the incident and was soon rescued by the provincetown fire department.
such human-whale encounters are rare, a whale expert told cape cod times, as humpback whales, which feed mainly on krill and fish, are not aggressive.
packard's experience is likely to be accidental, as the whales "do what we call gulp feeding, and they can open their mouths up incredibly widely," experts told nbc boston.
also read: whale nearly swallows south african conservationistxavierpoh@asiaone.
com
advertisementsupported byguest essayby elena chernenkoms.
chernenko is a special correspondent for kommersant, an independent newspaper in russia.
moscow — for a while, it wasn't clear that this week's meeting in geneva between president vladimir putin of russia and president biden would go ahead.
mr.  biden, seeking his first encounter as president with mr.  putin, made the invitation in mid-april; but it took until the end of may for the summit to be confirmed.
despite mr.  putin's experience with american presidents — he's dealt with four, across two decades — the kremlin, russian officials said, was considering the risk that mr.  biden would use the meeting to publicly lecture his russian counterpart on democracy and human rights.
the caution seemed reasonable.
after all, the new american administration, especially by comparison with its predecessor, devotes considerable attention to promoting human rights across the globe.
and mr.  biden set out his stall when he agreed in an interview in march that mr.  putin is a "killer.
"yet the kremlin eventually accepted the invitation.
why?
besides the chance to de-escalate tensions, there's one very good reason: mr.  putin has nothing to fear from mr.  biden.
enduringly popular and freshly buoyed by the quashing of the opposition, russia's president has ample cause to feel secure.
whatever the american president might say in geneva — or his administration do, by way of sanctions — will not affect mr.  putin's rule in russia.
the first impediment for mr.  biden is straightforward: his message will not get a good airing.
television, dominated by channels run or controlled by the state, remains the main source of news for three-quarters of russians, so most people in russia will see the american president through the kremlin's eyes.
independent media, recently curtailed by the authorities declaring several prominent outlets to be "foreign agents," won't be able to redress the imbalance.
yet even without this media filter, mr.  putin has no reason to fear any aspersions mr.  biden might cast his way.
though the president's popularity has waned a touch since its peak in 2014, he retains the trust and approval of over 60 percent of russians, according to levada center, an independent and highly respected polling organization.
this might be more inertia and apathy than a conscious political affiliation, but the result is the same.
the opposition can only dream about such ratings: support for the most prominent opposition leader, aleksei navalny, doesn't rise above 20 percent.
the blame for that can't be placed squarely on the kremlin.
though the opposition is hampered by a range of state restrictions, the fact remains that opposition rallies do not attract significant numbers of participants.
the last big protest in support of mr.  navalny — one of the largest displays of dissent in the past decade — brought between 51,000 and 120,000 people to 109 cities across the country on april 21, according to opposition outlets.
but even if you take the higher number, that amounts to less than 0.
1 percent of the country's population.
protesting is a minority interest.
and that's not just because russian authorities have repeatedly demonstrated their willingness to brutally suppress gatherings.
many people unhappy with life in russia stay away from protests because they don't associate themselves with the organizers and don't believe they can bring about change from the street.
in a recent survey by the levada center, only 21 percent of respondents said they would consider going to a rally in support of economic demands, and even fewer, 16 percent, said they'd go in support of political demands.
there are demographic divides — young people are generally more eager to protest — but that doesn't really change the picture.
what's more, those ready to actively challenge mr.  putin's rule have been repressed.
mr.  navalny, who returned to the country in january in the hope of setting off a substantive movement to oppose mr.  putin, was imprisoned with a two-and-a-half-year sentence.
many of his allies were jailed, while others fled the country.
and last week, his organization, the anti-corruption foundation, whose activities were already suspended, was officially labeled "extremist" — effectively preventing its activists from running in future elections and further intimidating supporters.
it's not just mr.  navalny.
another opposition network — open russia, founded by a former oil tycoon and now exiled kremlin critic, mikhail khodorkovsky — recently announced its closure, hoping to protect its coordinators.
that didn't stop the arrest on may 31 of one of the group's executives, andrey pivovarov, who now faces up to six years in prison.
fearing the same fate, another prominent opposition figure, dmitry gudkov, fled to ukraine in early june.
ahead of september's legislative elections, the authorities have disbanded the opposition and docked the media, closing down the space for dissent.
but a majority of russians, consumed by the concerns of everyday life and long inured to mr.  putin's rule, don't seem to care much.
with them, mr.  biden's message about the inviolability of human rights and the sanctity of democracy — both of which are slipping away in russia, to no general uproar — is likely to ring hollow.
even among russians who actively support democracy, the rule of law and human rights, mr.  biden won't find much support.
over the past decades, many russian liberals have become disillusioned with the west, especially the united states.
for some, america's image started to crack with the bombing of yugoslavia and the war in iraq.
for others, it was the revelations of wikileaks and edward snowden, which brought to light a host of america's covert operations and dirty dealings, that soured feelings of admiration.
and for many, the presidency of donald trump — during which washington abandoned international agreements, treated allies as clients, badly mismanaged the pandemic and, most important, exacerbated political polarization and social dysfunction — definitively stripped america of its authority.
with this legacy, no american president would have a substantial audience in russia.
secure internally and with little to lose, vladimir putin is ready for president biden.
as for his image in the united states and the rest of the west, it's fair to assume — after years as their arch-villain and evil mastermind — that mr.  putin couldn't care less.
elena chernenko (@elenachernenko) is special correspondent for kommersant and a member of the executive board of the pir center, an independent nongovernmental organization in moscow.
the times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor.
we'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles.
here are some tips.
and here's our email: letters@nytimes.
com.
follow the new york times opinion section on facebook, twitter (@nytopinion) and instagram.
advertisement
kuala lumpur: malaysia's parliament, which has not met since the state of emergency was declared in january, can reconvene during the third phase of the national recovery plan, prime minister muhyiddin yassin said on tuesday (jun 15).
this is likely to happen in september or october this year, he added.
"i wish to give my commitment that the parliament meeting can be held in this phase, around september or october, with tight standard operating procedures (sops) in place," he said when unveiling the plan in a televised address.
mr muhyiddin said this had been his stance since early on that malaysia's system of parliamentary democracy could function again at the appropriate time when covid-19 cases were under control and the country nearly reached herd immunity.
"i will continue to support the principles of parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy.
"don't let there be any parties who purposely create unrest and disorder among the people to the extent of hindering the government's main task to handle the pandemic," mr muhyiddin said.
the national recovery plan is a four-phase covid-19 exit strategy beginning with the current total lockdown.
daily covid-19 cases, intensive care unit occupancy and vaccination rate are the three indicators for the country to transition from one phase to another.
to enter phase three, daily cases have to fall below 2,000, the public healthcare capacity is at a comfortable level with enough icu beds, and 40 per cent of malaysia's population has received both vaccine doses, mr muhyiddin said.
"the earliest these thresholds can be reached is by the end of august 2021," he said.
as the country moves into each different phase, mr muhyiddin said additional economic activities would be allowed to resume, barring those with a high risk of spreading covid-19 or involved crowds.
for instance, education and certain sports activities could begin to reopen gradually during the plan's third phase.
currently, malaysia is in the midst of a total lockdown known as movement control order 3.
0, whichhas been extendeduntil jun 28. a total of 5,419 new cases were recorded on tuesday, bringing the national tally to 667,876.  the country could transition to the second phase when daily average cases fall below 4,000, the prime minister said.
the fourth and final phase is expected to be implemented by the end of october at the earliest when daily cases fall below 500 and 60 per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated, mr muhyiddin added.
"(the fourth phase) is when we can return to normal daily life as much as possible.
all economic sectors will open, more social activities will be permitted, interstate travel will be allowed and domestic tourism will also reopen with strict sops," he said.
mr muhyiddin stressed that the national recovery plan is dynamic and the government would decide to move into the next phase when the three thresholds are achieved.
in january, malaysian king al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah had proclaimed a state of emergency in malaysia to help curb covid-19's spread.
it is set to end on aug 1 or earlier depending on the state of the pandemic.
with the state of emergency in place, bothparliament and state legislature sittings, as well as elections,are suspended while economic activities are allowed to continue.
since last week, the king hasheld a series of audiences with 18 key political leaders, including opposition leader anwar ibrahim and former prime minister mahathir mohamad, for discussions on malaysia's current state of emergency and covid-19 efforts.
in a statement on tuesday, the palace said their views would be presented in the special malay rulers' meeting at 2.
30pm on wednesday.
rm1 billion daily loss during total lockdownsince the pandemic, the malaysian government has rolled out stimulus packages worth rm380 billion (us$92 billion) in total.
in his tuesday address, mr muhyiddin noted that the country suffered an economic loss of rm1 billion daily during the current lockdown.
"we cannot carry on like this.
for health and the continuation of all our lives, we need to get out of this crisis quickly," he said.
the prime minister urged those yet to register for their vaccine to do so through the mysejahtera application.
"until now, the total number of registrations are at 13.
8 million.
our target is to ensure at least 26 million of malaysia's population are vaccinated by the end of the year to achieve herd immunity," he said.
he added that 1.
4 people are fully vaccinated so far, while 3.
2 million people have received their first dose.
the prime minister said he hoped the national recovery plan could guide the country towards reclaiming the "much treasured freedoms" while doing all it could to protect the lives and livelihoods of malaysians.
"i am cautiously optimistic that with proper planning, execution and support from all malaysians, we can emerge victorious and stronger from this crisis," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the hague: the international criminal court's chief prosecutor on monday (jun 14) sought a full investigation into crimes against humanity during the philippines' "war on drugs", in one of her last acts before stepping down this week.
fatou bensouda asked judges at the world's only permanent war crimes court to authorise a probe into allegations that police unlawfully killed as many as tens of thousands of civilians between 2016 and 2019. the philippines left the icc in 2019 after the court launched a preliminary examination into president rodrigo duterte's drug crackdown, but bensouda said it could still investigate crimes committed while manila was a member.
"i have determined that there is a reasonable basis to believe that the crime against humanity of murder has been committed .
.
in the context of the government of philippines 'war on drugs' campaign," bensouda said in a statement.
"the available information indicates that members of the philippine national police, and others acting in concert with them, have unlawfully killed between several thousand and tens of thousands of civilians" during the period under investigation.
gambian lawyer bensouda, whose term of office ends on tuesday, said that "any authorised investigation in the philippines will fall to my able successor, mr karim khan, to take forward".
britain's khan will be sworn in on wednesday with a host of other challenges in his inbox including a probe into israel and the palestinian territories.
thousands of civiliansduterte's drug crackdown has drawn international censure and prompted the icc to launch its preliminary probe three years ago.
the crackdown is duterte's signature policy initiative and he defends it fiercely, especially from critics like western leaders and institutions which he says do not care about his country.
he was elected in 2016 on a campaign promise to get rid of the philippines' drug problem, openly ordering police to kill drug suspects if their lives are in danger.
more than 6,000 people have been killed in over 200,000 anti-drug operations conducted since july 2016, according to official data.
human rights groups estimate the number of dead could be several times higher.
many suspects have been put on "drug watch lists" by local officials and then visited by police at their homes a situation which often ends in a deadly shooting that officers claim was self-defence.
amnesty international said the icc investigation was a "landmark step".
"this announcement is a moment of hope for thousands of families in the philippines who are grieving those lost to the government's so-called 'war on drugs'," amnesty head agnes callamard said in a statement.
human rights watch said the court had "dealt a blow" for duterte's "presumption of impunity" for the killings.
'drugh watch lists'the tough-talking duterte has repeatedly claimed the icc has no jurisdiction over him and that he will not cooperate with what he has called an "illegal" probe.
he even threatened to arrest bensouda.
duterte has previously told the tribunal that the country's justice system is working amid allegations that local courts cannot or are unwilling to prosecute suspects in the killings one of the criteria for the icc to open a full investigation.
duterte has said he is willing to go behind bars if proven guilty in the philippine judicial system.
"if the court says that i should go to jail, i will go to jail.
that's no problem.
i did what i embarked to do," duterte said in a televised speech in december 2020. bensouda said previous cases showed that the icc "retains jurisdiction over crimes that are alleged to have occurred on the territory of that state during the period when it was a state party" to the international court.
she added that the court "does not take a position on any government's internal policies" to combat drugs but that it was acting under its mandate to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity.
the court would also investigate allegations of torture and other "inhumane acts" dating back as far as 2011, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
tokyo: japan's requirement of domestic clinical trials for covid-19 vaccines cost it precious time in inoculating its population, vaccine programme chief taro kono said on tuesday (jun 15).
about 4.
8 per cent of japan's population has been fully vaccinated, a reuters tracker shows, the lowest rate among large, wealthy economies at a time when tens of thousands of visitors are poised to arrive for the tokyo olympics starting on jul 23.
"if i could go back all the way to the beginning, i would have probably scrapped the clinical trial that we did," kono told reporters.
"it's probably necessary for ordinary times, but in the case of emergency, or state of emergency, like covid-19, i think we should have started the vaccination as early as possible.
"japan's mid-february start of vaccinations lagged behind most major economies and was dependent on initially scarce doses of pfizer-biontech's vaccine imported from overseas.
kono, the administrative reform minister tapped to head the programme in january, said that opposition parties pushed for domestic trials, and that media would have pilloried the government if accidents had happened without them.
but some public health experts have said that the domestic trials, involving 200 subjects or fewer, were scientifically meaningless.
in recent weeks, the vaccine campaign has picked up steam and is set to accelerate now that thousands of companies have signed up to use government supplies to administer shots to employees and families.
kono said he hoped that daily vaccinations would hit 1 million by the end of june, up from about 700,000 now.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
advertisementsupported byofficials made the move after more than 70 percent of adults in both states had received a first dose of the coronavirus vaccine.
by luis ferré-sadurní and shawn hublerthe governors of new york and california, the states hit earliest and hardest by the pandemic, triumphantly announced on tuesday that they had lifted virtually all coronavirus restrictions on businesses and social gatherings as both states hit milestones in vaccinating their residents.
in new york, where 70 percent of adults have received at least one dose of the vaccine, the order from gov.
andrew m.  cuomo means that restaurants will no longer be forced to space tables six feet apart; movie theaters will be allowed to pack their auditoriums without spacing seats apart; and entering commercial buildings won't require a temperature check.
"this is a momentous day and we deserve it because it has been a long, long road," mr.  cuomo said at the world trade center in lower manhattan on tuesday, adding that the changes meant a "return to life as we know it. "
in california, where 72 percent of adults have received at least one dose of the vaccine, gov.
gavin newsom called tuesday "reopening day," as he lifted similar capacity limits on businesses and social distancing requirements, with some exceptions.
businesses in both states, however, will still have the option of requiring health precautions on their premises.
the two governors, both democrats who are facing political difficulties, made their announcements at events that seemed more like rallies than news conferences.
for all the celebration, however, the nation was also poised to reach 600,000 dead from the coronavirus, a grim reminder of the virus's painful toll even as americans begin to enjoy a summer with significantly fewer limitations, if any, on their ability to live, work and socialize.
more than 63,000 have died from the virus in california, while in new york that number has reached nearly 53,000 — the two highest totals in the country.
yet both governors took the opportunity to look ahead.
in a 45-minute speech, mr.  cuomo, who is facing multiple investigations and the possibility of an impeachment proceeding, highlighted many of his pet infrastructure projects, embraced political supporters and announced a display of fireworks statewide scheduled for tuesday night.
mr.  newsom, who is facing a recall campaign, but has seen his approval ratings improve as the pandemic has receded, showed up at universal studios hollywood flanked by an assortment of minions from the "despicable me" movie franchise and the "transformers" robot hero optimus prime to announce $1.
5 million lottery prizes to people who had been vaccinated.
in both states, health officials have struggled to expand vaccinations among significant pockets of their population.
some of the lowest adult vaccination rates in new york city, for example, are in the bronx, where 38 percent of adults are fully vaccinated and in brooklyn, where 41 percent are, while several populous counties in california have yet to hit a 40 percent full vaccination rate for all residents.
even so, the lifting of restrictions in the coastal states that were once epicenters of the pandemic marked a symbolic moment in the nation's fight against the coronavirus, and are expected to bring back the type of scenes familiar to most new yorkers and californians in prepandemic times.
"rollback of most of the remaining covid-19 restrictions is the green light that employers have been waiting for in order to bring employees back to the workplace," said kathryn wylde, the president of the partnership for new york city, an influential business group.
in california, even business owners who had been critical of mr.  newsom expressed relief at the new rules.
"i see light!
i see light!"
joked michael helmrich, whose mandarin restaurant in sacramento was so battered during the past year that he posted a sign in the front window reading, "newsom sucks — the life out of california small businesses. "
mr.  cuomo set the 70 percent threshold that triggered the end of the restrictions in new york last week as a way to spur on the state's reopening and incentivize people to get vaccinated, saying "virtually all" coronavirus rules would expire.
washington d. c.  and 13 other states besides new york and california have all reached the same threshold, according to the latest federal data, with vermont topping the list at 84 percent.
maryland will lift most virus restrictions on july 1, the state announced on tuesday.
president biden will host a 1,000 person gathering on july 4 on the south lawn of the white house to celebrate the country's continued return to normalcy.
mayor bill de blasio on tuesday announced that the city would hold a parade on july 7 to honor front line and essential workers.
california and new york residents should still expect to see some signs of pandemic life even with the restrictions lifted.
both states will still abide by mask guidance from the centers for disease control and prevention, which has advised that unvaccinated people should wear masks indoors and maintain social distancing.
some stricter restrictions will remain in correctional and health care facilities, as well as in schools, public transit and homeless shelters.
and the decision to end many of the precautions, such as allowing vaccinated customers to walk around without masks, will be up to individual businesses.
some may decide to keep them in place in order to allow their clientele and employees to feel safe.
despite the cause for celebration, it will likely be months before new york city's commercial corridors in manhattan resemble anything like the hustle and bustle before the pandemic.
just 12 percent of workers have returned to their offices as of late may, about the same rate it was last fall, according to partnership for new york city.
california has been in better shape economically than most states, although its tourism sector "really had the sledgehammer taken to it," mr.  newsom noted on monday.
the state's unemployment rate remains about 4 percentage points higher than before the crisis and higher than the national average, largely because of layoffs at restaurants, hotels and tourist attractions.
over the past few months, as the virus positivity rate has reached record lows, mr.  cuomo has eased an array of pandemic-era rules, but tuesday's announcement was a near total cancellation of restrictions.
twenty-four-hour subway service resumed last month.
bars and restaurants were allowed to operate at 100 percent capacity and remain open past midnight.
state officials have also loosened capacity limits to allow more people in concert halls and sports stadiums.
the governor was in a celebratory mood on tuesday, delivering a speech with upbeat music, as well as handshakes with major labor leaders, whom mr.  cuomo honored with plaques to recognize the sacrifice of essential workers during the pandemic.
mr.  cuomo did not take questions from reporters.
"remember june 15," mr.  cuomo said, noting that was also the birthday of his father, gov.
mario m.  cuomo, whom the younger cuomo often invokes.
"it is the day that new york rose again.
"for a governor who climbed to national fame at the height of the pandemic, the speech appeared to suggest a "mission accomplished" moment in the state's battle against the virus at a time when mr.  cuomo has been embroiled in several scandals.
the governor has been scrambling to rehabilitate his image following sexual harassment accusations that have led to calls for his resignation, including among members of his own party.
multiple state and federal investigations are looking into the accusations, as well as his handling of nursing home death information and a $5.
1 million deal he received last year to write a pandemic memoir.
mr.  newsom is facing a recall campaign.
the attempt to oust him — a democratic governor in a blue state who was elected in 2018 in a landslide — defied even the expectations of its republican backers by qualifying for the ballot.
speaking without a face covering at universal studios, mr.  newsom said it was time "to move beyond capacity limits, to move beyond these color codings, move beyond social distancing and physical distancing, and — yes, as you saw me walk up to the stage — to move beyond mask coverings. "
"today is a day to reconnect — to give people hugs, to remind them we're not out of the woods yet, to remind them we're all in this together," the governor said.
"california is open again.
"still, some public health experts expressed concerns about a fuller reopening as the pace of vaccinations has slowed substantially in recent weeks, say that it was critical to increase the vaccination rate before the fall, when more people are indoors.
"my worry is whether this will erode the momentum of getting more people vaccinated," said dr.  wafaa el-sadr, a professor of epidemiology and medicine at columbia mailman school of public health.
"i worry people are going to think this is behind us.
"others, however, said abandoning restrictions was merited, given the improving infection and hospitalization rates, but, most importantly, the number of people that have been vaccinated.
dr.  kitaw demissie, the dean of the school of public health at suny downstate medical center in brooklyn, said that reaching a 70 percent vaccination rate represented a real public health success.
"seventy percent is really good in my opinion," he said, estimating that at least another 10 percent of people in new york city had immunity from prior infection.
"so that will take us probably to 80 or 85 percent immunity.
"luis ferré-sadurní reported from new york city and shawn hubler reported from sacramento, calif.  joseph goldstein, matthew haag and patrick mcgeehan contributed reporting.
advertisement
singapore the woman at the centre of a controversy over the misuse of her wedding photograph for hari raya aidilfitri decorations has responded to the people's association's (pa) decision to cancel a planned meeting, saying it was a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue.
in a statement on tuesday (june 15), communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, said it was disappointing that the pa has decided to cancel the meeting with her and her husband that was meant to take place at 10am on tuesday.
"while there was an infringement of our privacy and intellectual property rights, our intentions have always been clear from the start to be active citizens and to positively contribute to making singapore a better, more inclusive home for our daughter," she said.
she was referring to how her and her husband's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency recently.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
[[nid:530926]]after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
however, the pa on monday announced that it had decided to cancel the meeting, citing disagreements with the couple over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
the pa noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting, and said it did not see why the meeting "should be appropriated as a platform for (ms sarah) to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident".
it had also said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuates the racist culture" and was "racist", and rejected these claims.
in her response to the pa's decision, ms sarah said that the incident did not just affect her and her husband through the "culturally insensitive" depiction of hari raya aidilfitri celebrations, but also the wider community that celebrates hari raya aidilfitri.
"we are all equal stakeholders in the work that the pa does.
we feel this is a missed opportunity for constructive dialogue; for thoughts and suggestions of members of the community to be relayed, and also for the people's association to listen to the people's voices.
it is unfortunate that the pa has turned this opportunity down," she said.
"we will continue to advocate for deeper intercultural understanding and greater social cohesion in our everyday lives as singaporeans," ms sarah added.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cqi44ohbnv3/?utm_source=ig_embed&utm_campaign=loading[/embed]it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also said that what happened in radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
it added that it will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of singapore's different cultures.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
nadine chuathe new paperjun 16, 2021it was his day off and he was resting at home, nursing a fever after getting his second covid-19 vaccine dose a day earlier.
mr muhammad nazlan was watching tv with his wife on sunday night while their three children were out at the playground, located about 50m in front of his housing board unit.
suddenly, his daughter, 10, burst into their first-storey flat, screaming and crying.
mr muhammad, 34, a pest control technician, told the new paper yesterday: "i could not hear what exactly she was saying.
all i knew was something bad had happened to my son.
"i rushed out with my wife and saw my son lying on the ground, his arm stuck to a lamp post.
my son was unconscious but his eyes were still open, and i thought he was gone.
"his eldest son, 14-year-old muhammad rifqy, was playing football with a friend when both teenagers got an electric shock from a lamp post near the fitness corner at block 63 lorong 5 toa payoh.
the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said it received a call for assistance at 8.
25pm and two people were taken to kk women's and children's hospital.
mr muhammad said his son was initially in the intensive care unit but was moved to a regular ward on monday afternoon.
he said rifqy's friend had been discharged.
while his son is conscious, mr muhammad's friend, mr khairul anuar, 36, said rifqy is "not his old self" yet.
"i have been talking to him through video calls.
he is traumatised and his speech is slurred.
sometimes he talks using one word at a time.
but at least he is slowly recovering," said mr khairul, a grabfood rider.
it could have been much worse, if not for mr muhammad's prompt action.
rifqy had lost consciousness from an electric shock after he went to retrieve a ball that had rolled towards the lamp post.
"when i saw him lying there, i quickly tried to pull him away from the lamp post but his arm was stuck to it," said mr muhammad, who is asthmatic.
"that part of his arm looked like it was burned.
my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless.
i also felt another two shocks, one in my hand and one in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away.
"all i could think of was: if he dies, i also die with him.
"mr muhammad said his son seemed as if he had tensed up, and he felt helpless.
"i felt like a useless father because i wanted to give him cpr (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) but people around me were reminding me not to touch him," he said.
the scdf arrived moments later to tend to his son and the friend.
mr muhammad said his son told him the two had got to know each other three days prior to their sunday meeting, and the boy received a jolt when he touched rifqy.
when tnp visited the scene yesterday afternoon, workers were completing the installation of four new lamp posts.
mr muhammad, whose youngest is a five-year-old boy, said staff from bishan-toa payoh town council (btptc), which manages the estate, had contacted him and offered assistance.
town council statementin a statement last night, the town council said it had completed checks to establish the probable cause of the electric shock.
"the btptc licensed electrical worker (lew) noticed a small tear to the insulation of the live wire inside the lamp post.
this would not be visible unless we remove the junction box.
"from the finding, the lew assessed that the exposed part of the wire touching the metal part of the lamp post could be the cause of the electric shock," said the town council.
"the lew has also checked other lamp posts within the same circuitry and found no similar situation.
the incident could be an isolated case as there was also no previous similar incident of such nature.
"the btptc added that works to rectify the issue were completed yesterday and it will "continue to ensure the safety of (the) electrical installations (it manages)".
"i have lived in this flat for 13 years.
my children have been playing at the playground since they were babies.
but now, even with new lamp posts installed, i am not sure if it is safe to let my kids play outside any more," said mr muhammad.
"all i can think of is if my son will recover fully.
i am worried because this is not just a fall or a fracture.
i don't know how he will be affected by this in the long run.
"get the new paper for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new york (nytimes) the governors of new york and california, the states hit earliest and hardest by the covid-19 pandemic, triumphantly announced on tuesday (june 15) that they had lifted virtually all coronavirus restrictions on businesses and social gatherings as both states hit milestones in vaccinating their residents.
in new york, where 70 per cent of adults have received at least one dose of the vaccine, the order from governor andrew cuomo means that restaurants will no longer be forced to space tables 6 feet (1.
8m) apart; movie theatres will be allowed to pack their auditoriums without spacing seats apart; and entrance to commercial buildings would not require a temperature check.
"this is a momentous day and we deserve it because it has been a long, long road," mr cuomo said on tuesday at the world trade centre, in lower manhattan, adding that the changes meant a "return to life as we know it".
in california, where 72 per cent of adults have received at least one dose of the vaccine, govenor gavin newsom called on tuesday "reopening day", as he lifted similar capacity limits on businesses and social distancing requirements, with some exceptions.
businesses in both states, however, will still have the option of requiring health precautions on their premises.
the two governors, both democrats who are facing political difficulties, made their announcements at events that seemed more like rallies than news conferences.
for all the celebration, however, the nation was also poised to reach 600,000 dead from the coronavirus, a grim reminder of the virus's painful toll even as americans begin to enjoy a summer with significantly fewer limitations, if any, on their ability to live, work and socialise.
more than 63,000 have died from the virus in california, while in new york that number has reached nearly 53,000 – the two highest totals in the country.
yet both governors took the opportunity to look ahead.
in a 45-minute speech, mr cuomo, who is facing multiple investigations and the possibility of an impeachment proceeding, highlighted many of his pet infrastructure projects, embraced political supporters and announced a display of fireworks statewide scheduled for tuesday night.
mr newsom, who is facing a recall campaign but has seen his approval ratings improve as the pandemic has receded, showed up at universal studios hollywood flanked by an assortment of minions from the "despicable me" movie franchise and the "transformers" robot hero, optimus prime, to announce us$1.
5 million (s$1.
9 million) lottery prizes to people who had been vaccinated.
even with the restrictions lifted, california and new york residents should still expect to see some signs of pandemic life.
both states will still abide by mask guidance from the centres for disease control and prevention, which has advised that unvaccinated people should wear masks indoors and maintain social distancing.
some stricter restrictions will remain in correctional and health care facilities, as well as in schools, public transit and homeless shelters.
mr cuomo was in a celebratory mood on tuesday, delivering a speech with upbeat music, as well as handshakes with major labour leaders, whom mr cuomo honoured with plaques to recognise the sacrifice of essential workers during the pandemic.
he did not take questions from reporters.
"remember june 15," mr cuomo said, noting that was also the birthday of his father, govenor mario cuomo, whom the younger mr cuomo often invokes.
"it is the day that new york rose again.
"new york mayor bill de blasio on tuesday announced that the city would hold a parade on july 7 to honour front line and essential workers.
on independence day on july 4, president joe biden will host a 1,000-person gathering on the south lawn of the white house to celebrate the country's continued return to normalcy.
some public health experts, however, have expressed concerns about a fuller reopening as the pace of vaccinations has slowed substantially in recent weeks, and they said it was critical to increase the vaccination rate before autumn, when more people are indoors.
"my worry is whether this will erode the momentum of getting more people vaccinated," said dr wafaa el-sadr, a professor of epidemiology and medicine at columbia mailman school of public health.
"i worry people are going to think this is behind us.
"others, however, said abandoning restrictions was merited, given the improving infection and hospitalisation rate, and, most important, the number of people who have been vaccinated.
dr kitaw demissie, dean of the school of public health at suny downstate medical centre in brooklyn, said reaching a 70 per cent vaccination rate represented a real public health success.
"seventy per cent is really good in my opinion," he said, estimating that at least another 10 per cent of people in new york city had immunity from prior infection.
"so that will take us probably to 80 per cent or 85 per cent immunity.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
washington: several republican lawmakers, eager to blame a us government official for the response to the covid-19 pandemic, introduced a bill on tuesday (jun 15) to fire anthony fauci, the face of american efforts to combat covid-19.
congresswoman marjorie taylor greene led a handful of colleagues in announcing the so-called fire fauci act, which would reduce the famed infectious disease expert's government salary to zero and require the senate to confirm someone to fill his position.
fauci, who has advised seven us presidents, had become a trusted figure in the government's covid-19 response, beginning with his work during donald trump's administration.
but conservatives have taken aim at his performance, accusing him of misleading americans and providing contradictory advice on masks and social distancing.
"dr fauci was not elected by the american people.
he was not chosen to guide our economy.
he was not chosen to rule over parents and their children's education," greene told reporters.
"but yet dr fauci very much controlled our lives for the past year.
"the bill is not expected to receive a floor vote in the democratically-controlled house.
greene, whose extremist statements have made her a controversial figure in congress, pointed to a series of fauci emails that republicans seized on to argue that he misled americans and initially dismissed the idea that covid-19 may have originated in a chinese laboratory.
"it's time to fire dr anthony fauci and give answers to the american people," she said.
the white house defended fauci this month after the emails surfaced, calling him "an undeniable asset" in the pandemic response.
greene also aimed a fiery accusation at china, voicing suspicion that a wuhan laboratory was seeking to weaponise the virus.
"why would there ever be viruses created, taken out of nature, that can be shared and passed among bats or other creatures, and then harnessed and changed into some sort of virus that can be spread among people?
there's a word for that: it's called bioweapon," she said.
"were we all victims of a bioweapon?
we demand answers.
"china also must be held accountable, she said, noting the wuhan institute of virology's "gain-of-function" research, in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
this week the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the pandemic originated with a leak from her specialised wuhan lab denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times.
another fire fauci sponsor, congressman mo brooks, expressed support for greene's bioweapons theory, saying a country would only make a virus more contagious for "militarisation purposes".
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday (june 13) that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
[[nid:485082]]the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said: "the police have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law.
"this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
former people's action party (pap) member of parliament (mp) amrin amin gets a taste of winter after netizens began flooding his instagram account with the snowflake emoticon under his most recent posts.
a member of the public had earlier criticised the former parliamentary secretary for being "out of touch" when the latter opined on monday (14 june) that the people's association (pa)'s faux pas of using a malay couple's wedding photograph as a prop in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru is not a racist incident.
mr amrin, however, responded by calling him a "snowflake", which drew a lot of flak from other netizens.
in the comments section of mr amrin's post about the incident, one netizen replied that other individuals from minority communities do not have to agree with mr amrin's assessment of whether the incident is racist or not.
"no offense, but just cos you don't see it as racist don't mean the rest of us minorities have to agree with you.
stop being out of touch," the netizen wrote.
the slew of snowflake emojis on mr amrin's instagram posts came after it was disclosed by several users that accounts posting comments mentioning the word "snowflake" have been blocked from mr amrin's page, following the exchange on monday.
a contributor told wake up, singapore: "he/his pr team is blocking anyone who comments the word 'snowflake' on his posts".
sharing a tiktok video he made to celebrate the dragon boat festival, mr amrin shared that he "made 'bak chang' (meat rice) dumplings with family".
"did you make any?
i wish you and family peace and health this dragon boat festival.
!"
he added.
a post shared by amrin amin (@amrinamin)users did not hesitate to poke fun at mr amrin's post, leaving comments with references to snowflakes, in addition to the numerous comments only containing snowflake emoticons.
"wishing you the same, snowflake," said one commenter.
"eh your dumplings got snowflake flavour or not ah," wrote another.
"can we have snowflake festival instead?"
one commenter joked.
several commenters made references to elsa of arendelle, a fictional character from the disney film franchise "frozen" who is well-known for her superpower of creating and controlling ice and snow.
"elsa would be proud of this comment section," said one user.
two other most recent posts — one about covid-19 testing, the other about the easing of pandemic restrictions — were not spared from the cold as users proceeded to leave multiple comments with snowflake emoticons.
the word snowflake is derogatory slang for a person deemed to be very sensitive or easily offended.
according to the collin's dictionary definition, it means: "someone deemed too emotionally vulnerable to cope with views that challenge their own, particularly in universities and other forums once known for robust debate.
"in his post on monday (14 june), mr amrin shared the pa's latest statement on the use of the wedding photo in its hari raya decorations at radin mas which caused an uproar two weeks ago when the woman whose photo was used called out the pa for its actions.
following the incident, the pa issued a public apology, however ms sarah bagharib said that the apology shed light on "glaring gaps" that reflect a "very superficial understanding of the gravity of the issue".
in response, the pa made a statement on its facebook page on monday referencing her interview with nanyang technological university professor walid jumblatt abdullah, from which she was quoted as saying that the incident has perpetuated a culture of racism.
the pa said: "these are accusations we reject.
while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments.
"the organisation claimed that it had explained to ms sarah that while it acknowledges that its staff "should have been more culturally sensitive", it is not right to paint "sweeping conclusions from this incident", adding that it was an "isolated case".
the pa went on to describe ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting as "odd", adding that it does not see why that meeting should be "appropriated" as a platform for public grievances unrelated to the incident.
as such, the pa said that it will not be following through with the meeting as there is "no point" in doing so, in light of the above.
sharing the pa's statement on his own facebook page on the same day, mr amrin wrote that the lesson in this who situation is that while it is wrong to use a person's photo without permission and that weddings do no equate to hari raya, what the pa did was not "racist".
"as we call out racism, we must be careful not to label every error as borne out of racism or 'racist culture'. "
said the former mp of sembawang grc.
he went on to say that while it is crucial to point out shortcomings, people should not be too hasty to "cancel" and always look out for "opportunists eager to score points in their desire to gain mileage at any cost, without regard to sincere ongoing ground efforts".
he concluded, "grace is important in building harmony in a diverse society.
no one is perfect.
it's a work-in-progress.
not every slip is armageddon.
"mr amrin's remarks, however, were largely met with indignation from netizens.
some expressed shock at his move to call ms sarah an "opportunist".
many pointed out that mr amrin appears to be out of touch with his community and that they are glad he is no longer in office, as his views do not represent that of the people in the malay community.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
workers at a metal stock yard in shanghai on june 7.  the run up in commodities prices has fanned concerns in china that factories will eventually need to pass on higher costs to consumers, hurting the economy.
china has stepped up its campaign to rein in commodity prices and reduce speculation in a bid to ease the threat to its pandemic rebound from soaring raw material costs.
state-owned enterprises were ordered to control risks and limit their exposure to overseas commodities markets by the state-owned assets supervision and administration commission, according to people with knowledge of the matter.
the companies have been asked to report their futures positions for sasac to review, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the information is confidential.
in a second development, the national food and strategic reserves administration will soon release state stockpiles of metals including copper, aluminum and zinc, the agency said in a statement wednesday.
the metals will be sold in batches to fabricators and manufacturers, it said, without giving the volumes to be released.
metals prices in london and shanghai fell, as did the singapore exchange's iron ore contract.
shares of metals companies in china and hong kong declined, while australia's metals and mining sub-index posted its biggest loss in almost a month.
european stocks fell too, with rio tinto plc, bhp group and arcelormittal sa losing at least 0.
8%.
"we haven't seen the country release state reserves for years," said jia zheng, a commodity trader with shanghai dongwu jiuying investment management co.  "this will boost short-term supply, sending a bearish signal to the market.
"the scrutiny on overseas commodities positions, meanwhile, is aimed at "curbing excessive speculation as prices are overheated and could bring risks to soes," said jia.
the run up in commodities prices has fanned concerns in china that factories will eventually need to pass on higher costs to consumers, hurting the economy.
the role of speculators has drawn particular scrutiny from authorities.
read more: china targets 'speculators and hoarders' to stop commodity boomwhile china has accelerated its efforts to curb inflationary pressures, the moves have had mixed results.
chinese premier li keqiang stepped up the rhetoric on may 12, urging the country to deal with soaring prices.
iron ore slumped in the latter part of may following his comments, though it's since rebounded, and base metals prices remain much higher than last year despite a recent retreat.
goldman sachs group inc.  said last month the country's efforts are likely to be in vain as china is no longer the buyer dictating pricing, with the price dip a clear buying opportunity.
read more: tracking china's campaign to rein in sky-high commodity priceschina doesn't publish information about the volumes it holds in its state reserves, but the government quietly sets aside commodities as a way of insulating from future price spikes.
the material can be released in emergencies, such as previous instances of selling pork to cool inflation concerns due to a shortage of the staple meat.
this would be the first publicly announced release of copper from china's state stockpiles since 2005, when beijing sought to damp local prices after wrong-way bets by a government trader.
reserves of aluminum and zinc were also sold in 2010.  the lack of detail on volumes set to be released this time means it's uncertain how effective the move will be in taming prices.
it's also unclear what could have triggered sasac's latest order on overseas positions.
the regulator hasn't ruled out further measures, including those that target specific companies under its control, the people said.
a fax to sasac seeking comment didn't receive a reply.
the government had already asked domestic firms, including steel mills, commodities merchants and brokerages, to reduce bullish bets on local futures markets for highly volatile raw materials like iron ore and coal.
the expansion of oversight suggests beijing is now seeking to exert a measure of control over the international benchmarks that influence commodities prices in china, as well as deterring speculation more generally among state-owned companies.
— with assistance by jason rogers, winnie zhu, alfred cang, james thornhill, and james poole
several republican lawmakers, eager to blame a us government official for the response to the coronavirus pandemic, introduced a bill tuesday to fire anthony fauci, the face of american efforts to combat covid-19.
congresswoman marjorie taylor greene led a handful of colleagues in announcing the so-called fire fauci act, which would reduce the famed infectious disease expert's government salary to zero and require the senate to confirm someone to fill his position.
fauci, who has advised seven us presidents, had become a trusted figure in the government's covid-19 response, beginning with his work during donald trump's administration.
but conservatives have taken aim at his performance, accusing him of misleading americans and providing contradictory advice on masks and social distancing.
"dr fauci was not elected by the american people.
he was not chosen to guide our economy.
he was not chosen to rule over parents and their children's education," greene told reporters.
"but yet dr fauci very much controlled our lives for the past year.
"the bill is not expected to receive a floor vote in the democratically-controlled house.
greene, whose extremist statements have made her a controversial figure in congress, pointed to a series of fauci emails that republicans seized on to argue that he misled americans and initially dismissed the idea that covid-19 may have originated in a chinese laboratory.
"it's time to fire dr.  anthony fauci and give answers to the american people," she said.
the white house defended fauci this month after the emails surfaced, calling him "an undeniable asset" in the pandemic response.
greene also aimed a fiery accusation at china, voicing suspicion that a wuhan laboratory was seeking to weaponize the virus.
"why would there ever be viruses created, taken out of nature, that can be shared and passed among bats or other creatures, and then harnessed and changed into some sort of virus that can be spread among people?
there's a word for that: it's called bioweapon," she said.
"were we all victims of a bioweapon?
we demand answers.
"china also must be held accountable, she said, noting the wuhan institute of virology's "gain-of-function" research, in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
this week the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized wuhan lab denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times.
another fire fauci sponsor, congressman mo brooks, expressed support for greene's bioweapons theory, saying a country would only make a virus more contagious for "militarization purposes.
"mlm/dwbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore veteran actress xiang yun is celebrating 40 years in show business with a look back at her career.
in the latest bite-sized episode of mediacorp series #justswipelah, she touched on how she got started.
"i wanted to act.
i liked to act," the 59-year-old said in the nine-minute clip.
"my dad went to a fortune teller when i was young, who said i'd become an actress.
who would have thought i would go on to do it for 40 years.
time passes too quickly.
"now one of the most respected actresses in mediacorp, she was one of the first drama trainees at the television station, then known as singapore broadcasting corporation, in 1981. her first lead role in a drama was in all that glitters is not gold in 1983, but it was period drama the awakening the following year that made her a household name, together with co-star huang wenyong.
when asked who was her most memorable screen partner, she unhesitatingly said: "of course, it is my long-time screen partner, huang wenyong.
"huang died in 2013 of lymphoma at the age of 60.
"i'll never forget him because we went through many hardships together.
in life, to have someone who shares the same frequency as you, that's very rare.
"it was also through acting that she met her husband, edmund chen, 60, who has since retired from acting.
"like many others, i didn't want to find my other half at my workplace.
but when we filmed patrol together, he was so passionate that i surrendered to him," she said with a laugh.
patrol, a police drama, aired in 1989 and they swiftly married the same year.
touching tributes from fellow actors such as pierre png, felicia chin and romeo tan, as well as her husband and two children, who followed in her footsteps to become actors, made her tear up a few times.
those who have worked with her praised her professionalism and positive attitude, as well as her motherly nature.
however, the funniest snippet came from actor-host bryan wong, who revealed his nickname for her.
she wanted a less old-fashioned english name than roslyn, which an aunt had given her, so he came up with a very modern one, playing on the word "yun", which means cloud.
"he said 'icloud' and he and wenyong laughed like crazy," she said.
"he was so pleased with himself.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore former supreme court judge goh joon seng, who had served on singapore's council of presidential advisers (cpa) for more than a decade, died of cancer on tuesday afternoon (june 15).
he was 86, and is survived by his wife and two sons.
born in china, mr goh was first admitted as a lawyer here in 1963, and his practice as senior partner at goh poh & partners consisted mainly of insurance and building cases.
he was appointed a supreme court judge in october 1990. he had read law at the then university of singapore.
he attended holy innocent's english school from 1948 to 1953 it was renamed montfort school in 1958. during his time on the bench, he built up a strong reputation for his decisions and mediation skills, and was well-liked by lawyers for his gentle and courteous manner.
after retiring as a judge, mr goh became a consultant to law firm lee and lee and also continued to serve the public in various capacities.
for instance, he was tasked with chairing the three-member commission of inquiry set up to investigate the escape of jemaah islamiah terrorist mas selamat kastari from the whitley road detention centre in 2008. he had also played an instrumental role as the founding chairman of numerous mediation bodies here, including the singapore mediation centre (smc), the singapore chamber of maritime arbitration (scma) as well as the former consumer mediation unit (cmu), which handled customer complaints that banks are unable to resolve on their own.
described by former chief justice chan sek keong as an "approachable, friendly and unassuming judge who is mr affability himself", mr goh was appointed the chairman of the smc when it was launched in 1997 to resolve disputes through mediation.
he played a key role in overseeing the growth and development of mediation services in singapore until he stepped down from the position in 2003. justice belinda ang saw ean, who is smc's chair, said singapore owes a lot of its reputation as a centre for mediation to mr goh.
"what was once a little-known form of dispute resolution has become established thanks to his guidance and stewardship.
.
.
those who knew him will remember that he was a gentleman through and through.
"he was also founding chairman of the financial industry disputes resolution centre (fidrec) from 2005 to 2017, which was set up to sort out disputes between consumers and institutions and incorporates the cmu and the insurance disputes resolution organisation (idro).
during his time at fidrec, mr goh oversaw the resolution of complaints related to investments that unravelled after united states investment bank lehman brothers went belly up in 2008. he was also a member of the council of presidential advisers from 2008 to april this year, and had chaired the presidential council for religious harmony from 2005 to 2017. for his contributions, he was awarded the public service star in the 2006 national day awards, as well as the meritorious service medal in 2016. president halimah yacob on tuesday said mr goh made many valuable contributions as a member of the cpa.
"he was meticulous and known for his attention to details, and was often counted upon to provide the legal perspective to the issues at hand," she said.
she added that mr goh's tenure in the cpa also coincided with a period when singapore's reserves protection framework was put to the test, first during the global financial crisis in 2008 and then most recently during the covid-19 pandemic.
"on both occasions, mr goh and the cpa provided wise counsel on the proposals to draw upon our past reserves to manage the crises.
"chief justice sundaresh menon also said on tuesday that mr goh was a greatly respected judge who was admired and liked in equal measure by those who served with him and those who appeared before him.
"this was a time of much change in the profession, and many at the bar will remember it as a challenging period.
joon seng did his part in implementing the many reforms of the time, but always with kindness, and he came to be known to many of us as the gentle face of justice.
"in a statement, home affairs and law minister k.  shanmugam said that mr goh was a very committed volunteer with the volunteer special constabulary (vsc), where he served for 23 years, including two years as its commander.
the vsc was formed immediately after world war ii, in 1946, to assist regular police officers.
"he was a wonderful person, and had great judicial temperament.
it was always a pleasure to appear in his court.
he was very kind to counsel, was patient, had a keen sense of right and wrong.
.
.
his passing is a considerable loss for singapore," said mr shanmugam.
minister for culture, community and youth and second minister for law edwin tong said that mr goh had left a lasting impression on him when he was a young lawyer and appeared before him in several of his early cases.
"i learnt a lot from him, from always being on top of each case, the way he reasoned the cases before him to the empathy he showed to the accused persons and their families.
he was someone with a strong head and a generous heart, and mixed them both to find the balance of justice," said mr tong.
he added that mr goh also struck him as someone who always had singapore's interests at heart.
when their paths crossed after he took office at the ministry of law, and when mr goh was scma chairman, mr goh also discussed several key questions with him, including how jobs can be created for singaporeans, and how singapore can be positioned as a maritime and dispute resolution hub.
senior judge chao hick tin, chairman of scma, said mr goh had played an instrumental role in scma's growth as its founding chairman from 2009 to 2019.
"it is because of his outstanding leadership, dedication, and contributions that scma has made remarkable progress since its inception in 2009," said justice chao.
the montfort school and montfort alumni association added that mr goh actively participated in alumni activities and supported school fund-raisers, and even lent his legal skills to writing the alumni's constitution.
holland-bukit timah grc mp christopher de souza, a partner at lee and lee, said mr goh was a role model to many lawyers in the firm.
"mr goh had a brilliant legal mind and a kind countenance.
.
.
he would freely share his deep knowledge and insights into legal cases whenever we approached him.
his values of diligence and stewardship will remain with the firm, and its lawyers, for a long time.
we deeply mourn his passing.
"the funeral will be held next monday (june 21).
correction note: an earlier version of this article had used a picture which wrongly identified justice tay yong kwang as mr goh joon seng.
we are sorry for the error.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing/taipei: china does not tolerate foreign forces intervening in taiwan issues and has to make strong responses to such acts of "collusion", the government said on wednesday (jun 16) after the island reported the largest incursion to date of chinese aircraft.
twenty-eight chinese air force aircraft, including fighters and nuclear-capable bombers, entered taiwan's air defence identification zone (adiz) on tuesday, the island's government said.
the incident came after the group of seven leaders issued a joint statement on sunday scolding china for a series of issues and underscored the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, comments china condemned as "slander".
asked at a news conference whether the military activity was related to the g7 statement, ma xiaoguang, spokesman for china's taiwan affairs office, said it was taiwan's government that was to blame for tensions.
beijing believes the island's government is working with foreign countries to seek formal independence.
"we will never tolerate attempts to seek independence or wanton intervention in the taiwan issue by foreign forces, so we need to make a strong response to these acts of collusion," ma said.
democratically-ruled taiwan has complained over the last few months of repeated missions by china's air force near the island, concentrated in the southwestern part of its air defence zone near the taiwan-controlled pratas islands.
however, this time not only did the chinese aircraft fly in an area close to the pratas islands, but the bombers and some of the fighters flew around the southern part of taiwan near the bottom tip of the island, according to taiwan's defence ministry.
the fly-by happened on the same day the us navy said a carrier group had entered the disputed south china sea.
a senior official familiar with taiwan's security planning told reuters that officials believed china was sending a message to the united states as the carrier group sailed through the bashi channel, which separates taiwan from the philippines and leads into the south china sea.
"it's strategic intimidation of the us military.
they wanted the united states to notice their capability and for them to restrain their behaviour.
"taiwan needs in particular to pay attention to the fact that china's military has started conducting drills in taiwan's southeastern adiz, the source added.
this "to a certain degree was targeting our deployments in the east and increasing air defence pressure around our adiz", the source said.
taiwan's east coast is home to two major air bases with hangers dug out of the side of mountains to provide protection in the event of a chinese assault.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
china has accused nato of slandering its peaceful development after alliance leaders warned about "systemic challenges" coming from beijing.
china's actions, including expanding its nuclear arsenal, threatened "rules-based international order", nato said.
it was the first time nato had placed china at the centre of its agenda.
in its response, china said its defence policy was "defensive in nature" and urged nato to "devote more of its energy to promoting dialogue".
"our pursuit of defence and military modernisation is justified, reasonable, open and transparent," china's mission to the european union said in a statement.
it added that nato should view china's development in a "rational manner" and "stop taking china's legitimate interests and rights as an excuse to manipulate bloc politics, create confrontation and fuel geopolitical competition".
china's rebuttal came on the same day that it flew 28 air force jets into taiwan's air defence zone, the island's government said.
it is the fifth incursion this month, and the largest to date.
biden says america is back at the tablenato: us and europe are safer standing togetherwhat does the us do for nato?nato's statement came at the end of a one-day summit in brussels on monday.
it marked joe biden's first nato meeting as us president.
the powerful political and military alliance between 30 european and north american countries sees russia as a main threat.
mr biden is due to meet russian president vladimir putin in geneva on wednesday.
according to the summit's communiqué (concluding statement), china's "stated ambitions and assertive behaviour present systemic challenges to the rules-based international order and to areas relevant to alliance security".
"we remain concerned with china's frequent lack of transparency and use of disinformation," it says.
nato chief jens stoltenberg told reporters: "we're not entering a new cold war and china is not our adversary, not our enemy.
"but, he added: "we need to address together, as the alliance, the challenges that the rise of china poses to our security".
china is one of the world's leading military and economic powers, whose ruling communist party has a tight grip on politics, daily life and much of society.
the chinese military currently has the largest armed forces in the world, with over two million personnel on active duty.
nato has become increasingly concerned about the growing military capabilities of china, which it sees as a threat to the security and democratic values of its members.
in recent years, the alliance has also grown wary of china's activities in africa, where it has set up army bases.
the north atlantic treaty organisation, known as nato, is the world's most powerful regional defence allianceit was set up in 1949, after world war two, to counter the threat of communist expansionit was founded on the principle of collective defence between alliesit originally had 12 members, but now has 30 made up of european countries and the us and canadanato's current missions include offering training and assistance to afghan security forces, maintaining a peacekeeping force in kosovo and supporting counter-terrorism work in iraqas well as military operations, nato has supported relief efforts after crises like hurricane katrinaread more about natouk prime minister boris johnson said: "when it comes to china, i don't think anybody around the table wants to descend into a new cold war with china.
"nato's tough message on china followed criticism of the country by the g7, a group of major economies that met for a summit in england last week.
in a communiqué g7 leaders criticised china for alleged human rights abuses and demanded a transparent investigation of the origins of covid-19 in the country.
in response, china accused the g7 of "lies, rumours and baseless accusations" in a statement through its embassy in the uk.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
nora quoirin, a teenager who went missing from a malaysian rainforest resort since 4 aug 2019 (source: afp / quoirin family)a malaysian court will rule wednesday on a challenge by the family of a french-irish teenager over an inquest verdict that she died by misadventure after vanishing in the jungle.
the body of nora quoirin, a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and are seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict — suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan is expected to hand down his ruling at 5:00 pm (0900 gmt) at the high court in seremban, outside kuala lumpur, via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
"the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents," she said.
malaysian police have stuck to their version of events — that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
munich: a parachutist with "kick out oil" and "greenpeace" written on the back of his parachute flew into the allianz stadium before germany's euro 2020 opener against france on tuesday, briefly delaying the match and appearing to injure at least one person before landing.
two germany players approached the man before security officials escorted him off the pitch.
a camera operator appeared to have been injured in the incident but walked away by himself with medics.
the parachutist came in at a steep angle and appeared to clip a cable when entering the stadium as he struggled to gain control before landing heavily at the far end of the pitch where players were waiting to start the group f match.
greenpeace germany later wrote on twitter: "hey @volkswagen, time to kick out oil!
#greenpeace activists protest against the games' sponsor at the #frager-match and demand: stop selling climate-damaging diesel and petrol cars!
#euro2020"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
published :
													16 jun 2021 at 09:45												writer: 
															afp tokyo: japan could allow up to 10,000 fans at sports events ahead of the olympics, media reported wednesday, as organisers weigh how many domestic fans can attend the games.
the measure, intended to come into force after a coronavirus state of emergency ends on june 20, will be discussed by the government's virus taskforce on wednesday, the nikkei business daily and kyodo news agency said.
the plan would limit spectators to 50% of a venue's capacity or 10,000 people, whichever is lower.
it could set the boundaries for a decision by olympic organisers on how many domestic fans, if any, can attend games events.
overseas spectators have already been banned.
the olympic decision is expected only after the virus emergency in tokyo ends on june 20 and the government clarifies what measures will replace it.
recent reports have said the government could introduce "quasi-emergency" measures including restrictions on the sale of alcohol or limited opening hours for bars and restaurants.
experts and officials have expressed concerns that huge crowds attending the games could accelerate virus infections after the emergency ends.
japan has so far seen a comparatively small virus outbreak, with slightly more than 14,000 deaths despite avoiding harsh lockdowns.
but its vaccination programme has moved slower than many other developed nations, with just over five percent of the population fully inoculated so far.
under the current state of emergency, spectators are capped at 5,000 people or 50 percent of a venue's capacity, whichever is smaller.
the decision on olympic fans is expected by the end of the month.
khon kaen: a farmer was electrocuted while putting up an electric fence to protect seedlings in his rice field on tuesday night, and his son was also killed when he rushed to help him, police said.
chickens, cows, paid leave, even a million-dollar apartment, these are the prizes on offer from thailand to indonesia to hong kong for those who get vaccinated against covid-19 as nations across asia combat vaccine hesitancy.
the fight against covid-19 is focusing on poor enforcement of prevention measures at factories, where the virus is spreading "relentlessly".
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
geneva (afp) us president joe biden sang the praises on tuesday (june 15) of two us-made fighter jets in the running for a major contract to replace switzerland's fleet, his swiss counterpart said.
"mr biden recalled the excellent quality of the two us planes" the f35 made by lockheed martin and the f/a 18 made by boeing, swiss president guy parmelin told reporters after meeting with the us leader in geneva.
biden is due to hold a summit with russian president vladimir putin in the city on wednesday.
the two us fighters are competing against the rafale, made by french company dassault, and the eurofighter by airbus, to replace its ageing fleet of f-5 tigers and f/a-18 hornets both us-made.
"i reminded him that we have a process under way, which was decided on long ago, and that the government will reach its decision based on the process currently under way," parmelin said.
according to swiss media, a decision is expected on june 23 on who gets the contract, worth 6 billion swiss francs (s$8.
8 billion).
switzerland's long-standing position is one of armed neutrality and the landlocked european country has mandatory conscription for men.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the singapore armed forces captain involved in a 2018 incident where a bionix infantry fighting vehicle reversed and mounted a land rover he was in, killing the driver, told a district court on tuesday (june 15) that he did not expect the armoured vehicle to move backwards.
ong lin jie, 30, said he was also surprised that the bionix had fired at targets in front of it before reversing, as he thought it had encountered a friendly vehicle.
the officer is accused of acting rashly by failing to keep a safe distance of 30m between the land rover and the bionix, and ordering the driver corporal first class (cfc) liu kai to overtake it even though it was unsafe to do so and without first establishing communication with the other vehicle.
ong, who has since been suspended from service, was testifying during his trial on tuesday.
the tragedy occurred during a company exercise by the 42nd battalion singapore armoured regiment on nov 3, 2018. ong was then a platoon trainer with the armour unit training centre of the armour training institute and was tasked, among other things, with evaluating some of exercise participants.
he was also responsible for the safety of cfc liu, 22, the only other person in the land rover that day.
shortly before 10am, the land rover stopped about 30m behind the bionix at a junction.
ong then ordered cfc liu to overtake the armoured vehicle on its left.
after the bionix fired, cfc liu stopped the land rover 16m to 18m behind it.
the armoured vehicle then reversed and mounted the driver's side of the land rover, pinning cfc liu in his seat.
he died of traumatic asphyxia.
the prosecution is arguing that it should have been obvious to ong that there was a real risk that the bionix had encountered its opponents in the exercise and would need to reverse as part of the drill.
ong, through his lawyer teo choo kee, is arguing that there was no regulation that states he had to establish communication with the bionix when overtaking it.
on tuesday, ong said he had thought that the bionix had identified a friendly vehicle in front of it prior to the incident, based on an exchange via radio communications between the bionix commander and another army personnel.
he had also assessed that there was a "high possibility" that opposing troops would appear from behind the vehicles, ong added.
as he wanted to get into a position where he could observe the bionix without being caught in the middle of any firefight that might take place, he directed cfc liu to overtake the bionix.
when the armoured vehicle started to reverse, he shouted for it to stop and saw that its rear guide was also shouting.
"but the bionix did not stop and the accident happened," recounted ong as he struggled to keep his composure in court.
he had told the court on monday that his actions in overtaking a vehicle without establishing communication with it first was "not unsafe".
corporal first class liu kai, 22, died on nov 3, 2018, after a bionix armoured vehicle reversed into a land rover he was driving.
photo: mindef
if the practice of notifying a vehicle before overtaking it was "important and safe", it would have been included in the training safety regulations, he had said.
ong also said he had instructed cfc liu to overtake a bionix the day before the incident.
the trial continues on wednesday.
if convicted, ong can be jailed for up to five years, fined, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
xiang yun is celebrating her 40th anniversary in showbiz and many of her colleagues are showering her with messages of encouragement.
in fact, she was so touched that she even cried.
on the mediacorp series just swipe lah, the 57-year-old talked about her illustrious career and she was also filmed watching video messages from various celebrities such as elvin ng, felicia chin, jeffrey xu, zhang yaodong, and romeo tan.
her two children with former actor edmund chen, yixi and yixin, recorded touching clips for her as well.
[embed]https://www.
youtube.
com/watch?v=0qgsuy2x2ya&[/embed]reflecting on her career, xiang yun said the beloved late actor huang wenyong was her most memorable screen partner.
"i'll never forget him because we went through many hardships together.
in life, to have someone who shares the same frequency as you, that's very rare," she explained.
when asked about meeting edmund, she laughed: "like many others, i didn't want to find my other half in the same workplace.
i didn't think that after filming patrol with him, he would be so passionate.
i was no match for him.
"among the celebs who 'confessed' to her, first up was elvin, 40, who said: "xiang yun, i think you're really great.
.
.
at every stage [of your career], you command respect and admiration.
i can see that your condition is very good now.
and i feel very reassured because you look healthier and more confident.
.
.
"i remember when we were filming heart to heart, your health and morale.
.
.
perhaps you felt a little [like] things were not smooth-sailing for you.
"[[nid:532763]]xiang yun explained that the year she was filming the drama with elvin, she was "very busy" and "rushing here and there".
she added: "it felt like i reached a dead end where i was thinking if i should leave showbiz.
but luckily i have so many colleagues who love me.
i should share my experience during this period with everyone.
i also hope to motivate people to live life more positively.
"as for 36-year-old felicia, the thing she likes most about xiang yun is her "clear and motivating voice" that she'll hear in the morning when the latter is greeting everyone.
felicia said: "i really respect your drive and your professionalism.
no words can compare.
"xiang yun described felicia as a hardworking actress with a positive attitude.
when watching the video, xiang yun dabbed her eyes with tissues as she said: "thank you, thank you.
i'm very grateful, really.
i've always been like this.
i grew up in a hawker centre [and] when someone came over, we'll say 'wah, we are so lucky today, it didn't rain'.
[[nid:532799]]"if everyone adopted this attitude as a habit, the world would be really wonderful.
"the breaking point came after jeffrey's message.
he described her as "my older sister, mum, and my colleague".
the 32-year-old then said that xiang yun will "always be our ah jie" and thanked her for everything she has sacrificed for the industry.
xiang yun replied: "aiyo, why are you making me cry every time?
i can't stand it.
"in response to all of the concerned messages from fellow actors, she said: "so they've been silently watching over me.
we're not just colleagues who barely know each other.
"bryanlim@asiaone.
com
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore chinese daily lianhe zaobao has responded to an open letter signed by local academics and scholars who took issue with its recent editorial on race relations, saying it has consistently upheld racial equality and advocated for mutual understanding among all ethnic groups in singapore.
as the anchor chinese newspaper, it has publicly and unequivocally condemned several recent local incidents of racial discrimination, and jointly defended racial harmony through its editorials, zaobao said on monday (june 14).
"singapore is a multiracial nation.
we truly believe in the ideals expressed in the national pledge and cherish the hard-won racial harmony, but that does not mean that we believe that there are no tensions in racial relationships," it said.
"lianhe zaobao has always taken a consistent stance on upholding equality among all races and advocating that there should be mutual understanding among ethnic groups.
this is evident from our editorials, news reports and feature articles.
in the midst of the pandemic, we have seen more racial tensions simmering, which is why we have published a total of seven editorials related to this issue in the past year and a half.
"the open letter, which was signed by over 200 people, was concerned about the way it felt zaobao had characterised the problem of racism here in the wake of recent racial incidents in its june 9 editorial titled 'expanding public space to promote racial harmony'.
the letter's signatories include phd students, researchers and academics, among them professors linda lim, lee soo ann, vineeta sinha and pang eng fong.
the letter said the editorial "ignores the dynamics of structural racism and the longer history of racial stereotyping in singapore", and blamed the recent incidents on the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, the sensationalism of social media, and the import of "foreign ideas" such as critical race theory the idea that racism is not just about personal prejudice but is also embedded and perpetuated by systems and policies.
"it is true that feelings of uncertainty heighten inter-group tensions, and that conversations on social media can be polarising.
however, the editorial uses these arguments to suggest that recent racist incidents are an anomaly in an otherwise racially harmonious society, and that social media exaggerates what are otherwise exceptional acts by unusually racist individuals," said the letter.
it said the pandemic and social media have "simply revealed long-standing fissures and the everyday discrimination experienced by racial minorities in singapore".
the letter also said zaobao had misrepresented critical race theory as "promoting hatred of white people" in the united states, and by extension, of chinese people here.
it added that this argument is typically made by far-right commentators in the us who do not engage in the actual writings and concepts of critical race theory.
in response, zaobao hoped readers would see the june 9 editorial in its entirety, saying the piece analyses the problem from three different aspects, and tries to explain that the pandemic, the role of social media, and popular ideological trends from abroad have all exacerbated racial tensions.
critical race theory (crt) was cited as an example of the influence of foreign ideas, zaobao said, adding some scholars had used the concept, which originated in the us in the 1970s, to analyse race issues here, and criticise it for downplaying the "systemic and structural racism" in singapore.
it also noted the different interpretations of the concept in academic circles, saying: "one should not easily dismiss the critique of crt by serious scholars as a 'far-right american perspective'.
""we strongly believe that when discussing the issue of race in singapore, we should not be applying foreign ideas and concepts without adapting them to local conditions," zaobao added.
it said racial discrimination exists in every society, with some things in common and others specific to each.
"theories and concepts based on foreign situations may not always be applicable to singapore.
sometimes, instead of deepening our understanding of the issue and promoting consensus, they may complicate it.
but we are also aware and accept that there are those who do not agree with such views and positions.
"it added: "racial harmony is a common goal for all singaporeans.
we believe the scholars who signed the letter share the same philosophy and welcome rational and open discussion on the issue.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — dickson yeo, the singaporean man who was jailed in the us for spying for china and was arrested by the internal security department (isd) upon his return to singapore last year will be continue to be held in detention under the internal security act.
in a statement on tuesday (15 june), the department said its investigations have established that yeo "worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains".
from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019, yeo was asked to source for information and provide reports on issues, including information relating to singapore, and had approached various people in singapore to try to get information for his reports, said the isd.
he also set up a front company in singapore as a cover, not only for information-gathering activities but also for his foreign handlers to recruit others.
"he had also tried, but failed, to secure employment in the singapore government sector to further his information-gathering activities," the department added.
the isd said its investigations are still ongoing and yeo's continued detention is necessary "to facilitate probes into the full extent of his activities".
"the singapore government takes a very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government and engages in activities at the behest of the foreign power that is inimical to our national security and interests, including bilateral relations," the department added.
yeo was a doctoral candidate at the national university of singapore's lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) when he was recruited by chinese intelligence officers after a 2015 trip to beijing to give a presentation on the political situation in southeast asia.
he was first arrested by american counterintelligence officers in november 2019.  he pleaded guilty in july last year to one charge of operating illegally as a foreign agent, and admitted to working between 2015 and 2019 for chinese intelligence "to spot and assess americans with access to valuable non-public information, including us military and government employees with high-level security clearances".
a few days after he entered his plea, lkyspp said it had terminated yeo's phd candidature with immediate effect.
yeo had enrolled as a phd student there in 2015 and was granted a leave of absence in 2019. in october last year, yeo was jailed for 14 months in the us for passing to the chinese government valuable, but unclassified, military and political information that he had duped a number of americans into giving him.
prosecutors said that yeo was motivated by monetary gain and a shared desire with china to weaken the global standing of the us.
among the information yeo handed over to china were reports on a military aircraft program, us troop withdrawal in afghanistan and on a us cabinet member, who was not identified in court documents.
"i take full responsibility for what i have done," yeo reportedly said during sentencing.
"i am sympathetic to china's position, but it was not my intention to harm anyone.
"in a statement announcing his arrest upon his return to singapore in december last year, singapore's ministry of home affairs said, "singapore will not allow our nationals to be subverted or used by any foreign actors for activities prejudicial to our security and national interests.
"we will deal firmly with such individuals in accordance with our laws," the ministry added.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated story:dickson yeo, singaporean who spied for china, arrested by isdsingaporean pleads guilty in us to working for chinese intelligencesingapore man sentenced to prison for spying for china in usbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
by neil jerome morales and karen lemamanila (reuters) philippine president rodrigo duterte will not cooperate with an investigation into the country's bloody war on drugs planned by the international criminal court (icc), his spokesperson said on tuesday, while families of the victims cheered the move.
normita lopez, whose son was a victim of the anti-drugs campaign, said she could not contain her happiness when she learned about the icc prosecutor's request to open a full investigation into the killings.
"i am happy because i realised that justice never sleeps," said lopez, 56, who is among the many complainants to the icc calling for duterte's international indictment over thousands of alleged extra-judicial killings.
"god is not sleeping, he always finds a way," she said.
her 23-year-old son was killed in may 2017 for allegedly resisting arrest during a sting operation.
in what human rights groups described as a landmark step towards justice, the icc prosecutor asked the court on monday to allow a full investigation into the killings in the brutal war on drugs, which duterte unleashed when he took office in 2016. since then, philippine security forces say they have killed 6,117 suspected drug dealers because they fought back violently, but rights groups say authorities have summarily executed drug suspects.
duterte, who in march 2018 cancelled the philippines' membership of the icc's founding treaty, will not cooperate with the probe, his spokesperson said, while rejecting the icc prosecutor's findings.
"we will not cooperate because we are no longer a member," spokesperson harry roque told a news conference on tuesday.
under the icc's statute, it has jurisdiction for crimes committed while a country was a member until a year after it sought to withdraw, in this case between 2016 and 2019, when the philippines' pullout became official.
icc chief prosecutor fatou bensouda said on monday that she had concluded a preliminary examination into the killings and had sought permission from the court for a full inquiry.
she had said last december there were reasonable grounds to believe crimes against humanity had been committed during duterte's bloody anti-narcotics crackdown, whose death toll has stirred international outrage.
a series of reuters stories in 2016 and 2017 exposed the brutal killings being carried out in the philippines as part of the war on drugs.
many of these stories were referred to in the icc report on its preliminary examination.
2016 series: https://www.
reuters.
com/investigates/section/philippines-duterte2017 series: https://www.
reuters.
com/investigates/section/philippines-drugspopular at homedespite concerns from the international community about the crackdown on drugs, duterte remains popular at home and many filipinos back his tough stance on crime.
his single six-year term as president will end in june next year, and political analysts say he would want an ally to win the presidency to protect him from potential legal challenges and political vendettas once he loses immunity out of office.
"we do not need foreigners to investigate killings in the drug war because the legal system is working in the philippines," roque said, adding he believed launching a formal probe was "legally erroneous and politically motivated.
"roque said police used appropriate force and there was "no intention to target and kill civilians.
"a government anti-drugs agency said in a statement that cases filed against erring officers were being dealt with and denied there were "policies that permit, tolerate, and condone killings and other human rights violations.
"but randy delos santos, uncle of high school student kian delos santos who was killed by police officers in august 2017, said he refused to believe government claims that the victims had fought back.
he said he hoped reports on his nephew's death, which form part of the icc report, will pave the way for other families of drug war victims to secure justice.
((see the reuters report on the 17-year-old's killing here https://www.
reuters.
com/article/us-philippines-drugs-student-iduskcn1b51u2))"i welcome the icc (prosecutor's move).
there are many who died (in the drugs war).
i feel the pain of other families," delos santos told reuters.
(reporting by neil jerome morales; additional reporting by eloisa lopez; editing by ed davies and raju gopalakrishnan)with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
dramatic courtroom clash as judge says evidence for charges against tevin biles-thomas is 'insufficient'meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
human remains have been found in london in the search for 20-year-old suspected murder victim agnes akom.
metropolitan police officers discovered the remains in neasden recreation park near cricklewood in northwest london.
hungarian national ms akom, also known as "dora", had been living in the uk for three years.
home secretary priti patel has said an independent report accusing the metropolitan police of "institutional corruption" over the daniel morgan murder case is "deeply alarming".
"this is one of the most devastating episodes in the history of the metropolitan police," she told mps in the house of commons on tuesday.
british farmers: what do you think of the uk-australia trade deal?we'd like to hear how british farmers feel about the information that has so far emerged about the new trade agreement, and how they believe it might impact them a display of pork products available in store at a morrisons meat counter in leeds, as the supermarket announces they are supporting british pig farmers who are suffering as a result of changes in demand from eu countries by introducing deals on sausages, bacon and pork,this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
mark drakeford was asked about the proposed levy during a sitting of the welsh parliament.
the israeli air force launched air strikes on the gaza strip early wednesday after militants in the palestinian territory sent incendiary balloons into southern israel, security sources and witnesses said.
the airstrikes and balloons marked the first major flare-up between israel and gaza since a ceasefire on may 21 ended 11 days of heavy fighting that killed 260 palestinians, according to gaza authorities, and 13 people in israel, the police and army there said.
according to palestinian sources,channel 4 news said the alleged offences include serious sexual assault and rape.
research best security system.
protect yourself and your home with wireless alarm systems.
ireland expects that britain's approach to brexit talks with the european union are likely to change and improve following pressure exerted by international partners at the group of seven summit at the weekend, foreign minister simon coveney said.
ever since the united kingdom voted to leave the european union in 2016, the two sides have been trying to work out how to deal with post-brexit trade and the british province, which has a land border with eu member ireland.
tensions between british prime minister boris johnson and european union leaders on the issue, which some worry has the potential to escalate into a full-scale trade war, overshadowed the g7 summit at the weekend.
footage shared on social media showed newsnight political editor nicholas watt chased and harrassed by a mob of demonstrators.
dispute comes after boris johnson claimed eu leaders need to 'get into their heads' that province is part of uknew research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearfox contributor mocked for being among 'the most un-self-aware people to walk the planet'at least one officer was filmed repeatedly kneeing a teenager in the stomach during the saturday arrestireland will double the quarantine period for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated arrivals from britain to 10 days but still plans to allow people to move more freely between the two countries from mid-july, transport minister eamon ryan said.
the change is due to the rapid spread of the more infectious delta variant in britain, which delayed plans to lift most remaining covid-19 restrictions there by a month on monday.
"it is just to reflect concern about the delta variant and to try and hold back the development of that variant here as much as we can and give us time to get vaccines out to give us cover against it," ryan told reporters on tuesday.
top deals and info researched for you right here.
get the best results on the go, now!marcus fysh has criticised the government for extending lockdown measuresmainland scotland will not move down to the lowest level of covid restrictions for at least five weeks, nicola sturgeon has disclosed as she delayed once more the easing of lockdown.
the first minister said her original plan for the country to move to level 0 of her five-tier system on june 28 would be postponed by three weeks so more people could be vaccinated.
however, her official spokesman later confirmed the new july 19 target the same date chosen by boris johnson to lift all restrictionsnato has declared for the first time that china is a security challengeevery pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
the duo will embark on a series of road trips.
some fans booed england for taking the knee before their opening match of euro 2020 at the weekend.
the former 'gladiators' presenter has bared all in a bid to encourage men to talk about grief.
it was his day off and he was resting at home, nursing a fever after getting his second covid-19 vaccine dose a day earlier.
mr muhammad nazlan was watching tv with his wife on sunday night while their three children were out at the playground, located about 50m in front of his housing board unit.
suddenly, his daughter, 10, burst into their first-storey flat, screaming and crying.
mr muhammad, 34, a pest control technician, told the new paper yesterday: "i could not hear what exactly she was saying.
all i knew was something bad had happened to my son.
"i rushed out with my wife and saw my son lying on the ground, his arm stuck to a lamp post.
my son was unconscious but his eyes were still open, and i thought he was gone.
"his eldest son, 14-year-old muhammad rifqy, was playing football with a friend when both teenagers got an electric shock from a lamp post near the fitness corner at block 63 lorong 5 toa payoh.
the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said it received a call for assistance at 8.
25pm and two people were taken to kk women's and children's hospital.
mr muhammad said his son was initially in the intensive care unit but was moved to a regular ward on monday afternoon.
he said rifqy's friend had been discharged.
while his son is conscious, mr muhammad's friend, mr khairul anuar, 36, said rifqy is "not his old self" yet.
"i have been talking to him through video calls.
he is traumatised and his speech is slurred.
sometimes he talks using one word at a time.
but at least he is slowly recovering," said mr khairul, a grabfood rider.
it could have been much worse, if not for mr muhammad's prompt action.
rifqy had lost consciousness from an electric shock after he went to retrieve a ball that had rolled towards the lamp post.
"when i saw him lying there, i quickly tried to pull him away from the lamp post but his arm was stuck to it," said mr muhammad, who is asthmatic.
"that part of his arm looked like it was burned.
my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless.
i also felt another two shocks, one in my hand and one in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away.
"all i could think of was: if he dies, i also die with him.
"mr muhammad said his son seemed as if he had tensed up, and he felt helpless.
"i felt like a useless father because i wanted to give him cpr (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) but people around me were reminding me not to touch him," he said.
the scdf arrived moments later to tend to his son and the friend.
mr muhammad said his son told him the two had got to know each other three days prior to their sunday meeting, and the boy received a jolt when he touched rifqy.
when tnp visited the scene yesterday afternoon, workers were completing the installation of four new lamp posts.
mr muhammad, whose youngest is a five-year-old boy, said staff from bishan-toa payoh town council (btptc), which manages the estate, had contacted him and offered assistance.
in a statement last night, the town council said it had completed checks to establish the probable cause of the electric shock.
"the btptc licensed electrical worker (lew) noticed a small tear to the insulation of the live wire inside the lamp post.
this would not be visible unless we remove the junction box.
"from the finding, the lew assessed that the exposed part of the wire touching the metal part of the lamp post could be the cause of the electric shock," said the town council.
"the lew has also checked other lamp posts within the same circuitry and found no similar situation.
the incident could be an isolated case as there was also no previous similar incident of such nature.
"the btptc added that works to rectify the issue were completed yesterday and it will "continue to ensure the safety of (the) electrical installations (it manages)".
"i have lived in this flat for 13 years.
my children have been playing at the playground since they were babies.
but now, even with new lamp posts installed, i am not sure if it is safe to let my kids play outside any more," said mr muhammad.
"all i can think of is if my son will recover fully.
i am worried because this is not just a fall or a fracture.
i don't know how he will be affected by this in the long run.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
manila philippine president rodrigo duterte on tuesday (june 15) slammed a call for a war crimes court to probe his bloody drug war as "legally erroneous and politically motivated".
mr duterte's spokesman, mr harry roque, said at a news briefing that mr duterte's crackdown on the narcotics trade was not a "widespread systematic attack against civilians".
"did you target civilians?
did you kill them willingly, knowing they were civilians?
obviously, the answer is no," he said.
that being the case, he argued, the "extrajudicial killings" that resulted from the drug war could not be considered "crimes against humanity".
in one of her last acts before stepping down as chief prosecutor of the international criminal court (icc) this week, ms fatou bensouda sought a full investigation into mr duterte's purported crimes against humanity for a drug war that has left thousands dead since he took office in 2016.
"i have determined that there is a reasonable basis to believe that the crime against humanity of murder has been committed.
.
.
in the context of the government of philippines 'war on drugs' campaign," she said in a statement.
in her 57-page report to icc's judges, ms bensouda said "there is a reasonable basis to believe" that security forces and state-sanctioned "vigilantes" killed between 12,000 and 30,000 drug suspects from july 1, 2016, to march 16, 2019. she said security officials "paid police officers and vigilantes bounties" to execute people suspected of being involved in the drug trade.
"state officials at the highest levels of government also spoke publicly and repeatedly in support of extrajudicial killings and created a culture of impunity for those who committed them," she said.
she said the investigation should include allegations of torture and other "inhumane acts" dating back as far as 2011, when mr duterte was mayor of davao city.
human rights activists called ms bensouda's decision a step closer to holding mr duterte accountable.
it is a "much-awaited step in putting murderous incitement by president duterte and his administration to an end", amnesty international's secretary-general, ms agnes callamard, said.
"the icc's intervention must end this cycle of impunity in the country and send a signal to the police and those with links to the police who continue to carry out or sanction these killings that they cannot escape being held accountable for the crimes they commit," she said.
the international coalition for human rights in the philippines said it was "a positive step that may help bring some measure of justice to the thousands victimised and terrorised by the duterte regime".
it called on the united nations human rights council to begin its own probe into mr duterte's human rights record.
mr duterte was elected to office in 2016 on a campaign promise to get rid of the country's drug problem, openly exhorting the police to kill drug suspects.
but he has repeatedly denied links to the killings, insisting that most resulted from rivalries among drug gangs.
he has also backed police accounts that most of those killed were on "drug watch lists" who had been armed and resisted arrest.
while ms bensouda concluded that as many as 30,000 had been killed, the latest official data showed just 6,000 suspects had died in over 200,000 anti-drug operations.
the philippines officially withdrew from the icc in 2019 on mr duterte's order after multiple complaints were filed against him.
ms bensouda, however, said previous cases showed that "the court retains jurisdiction over crimes that are alleged to have occurred on the territory of that state during the period when it was a state party" to the icc.
but mr roque insisted that the icc lacked jurisdiction in the philippines.
"we are no longer a member of the icc," he said.
he added that the court could not intervene as long as the philippines had "independent and competent courts" that were already investigating the killings.
"the icc will not exercise jurisdiction unless the state is unable and unwilling to prosecute.
.
.
this is not the case in the philippines," he said.
should the court decide to probe him for war crimes, mr duterte would "never cooperate" as long as he is president, mr roque added.
he said the icc should also not allow itself to be used by mr duterte's political enemies harbouring ambitions for higher office.
he said among those who filed complaints before the icc was former senator antonio trillanes, a former soldier and fierce critic of mr duterte, who has announced his intention to run for president next year.
the icc's judges have up to four months to issue a decision on ms bensouda's request.
but pursuing it would be up to ms bensouda's successor, mr karim khan, who would be sworn in on wednesday (june 16).
in a statement, the philippines' foreign ministry said ms bensouda's "midnight announcement" tied mr khan's hands.
the ministry said ms bensouda had "undercut the attractiveness" of joining the icc for some nations.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a single day rise of 62,224 new coronavirus infections were reported taking india's total tally of covid-19 cases to 2,96,33,105, while the active cases were recorded below nine lakh after 70 days.
the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,79,573 with 2,542 fresh fatalities, according to the health ministry on wednesday.
congress leader rahul gandhi said india needs quick and complete vaccination and not the bjp's 'brand of lies and rhyming slogans' to cover up the vaccine shortage caused by the government's inaction.
a net decline of 47,946 cases has been recorded in the covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.
the 2,542 new fatalities include 1,458 from maharashtra, 267 from tamil nadu, 166 from kerala and 115 from karnataka.
a total of 3,79,573 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,14,154 from maharashtra, 33,148 from karnataka, 30,068 from tamil nadu, 24,851 from delhi, 21,914 from uttar pradesh, 17,049 from west bengal, 15,650 from punjab and 13,342 from chhattisgarh.
the decision regarding enhancing interval between two doses of covishield was based on scientific evidence and taken in a transparent manner, ntagi chair n k arora said on tuesday.
there was no dissenting voice among the members of the national technical advisory group on immunization (ntagi ), he said, according to a tweet by the union health ministry.
the government had on may 13 said it has accepted the covid-19 working group's recommendation and extended the gap between the two doses of the covishield vaccine from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks.
"based on the available real-life evidence, particularly from the uk, the covid-19 working group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of covishield vaccine.
no change in the interval of covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the ministry had said in a statement.
"the recommendation of the covid-19 working group was accepted by the national expert group on vaccine administration for covid-19 (negvac), headed by dr v k paul, member (health), niti aayog, in its meeting on may 12, 2021," the ministry said.
it has accepted this recommendation of the covid-19 working group of extension of the gap between the first and second doses of covishield to 12-16 weeks, the health ministry added.
related reads:'didn't back doubling gap between 2 astrazeneca doses'covid: int'l haj cancelled, indian panel nixes all applicationsdespite noises, yogi comfortably placed in up if no third wave74% indian workers want hybrid work options: studycoca-cola lost a staggering $5.
2 billion thanks to cristiano ronaldo at euro 2020.  watch the viral moment here.
the central agencies want to ascertain whether there exists any chinese conspiracy angle to this fraud.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
london [uk], june 15 (ani): as the controversy around fugitive diamantaire mehul choksi's disappearance from antigua refuses to die down, a uk-based law firm looking after the case has released images and videos on monday claiming that he was kidnapped from antigua.
desi twitter is experiencing waves of nostalgia in the latest trend, a throwback to mosaic flooring in middle-class households.
people have a lot of faith in the prime minister as opposed to the chief ministers, despite claims to the contrary.
find furniture you love, at prices that fit your budget with flexible financing.
the therapy, azd7442, was 33% effective in reducing the risk of people developing symptoms compared with a placebo, but that result was not statistically significant.
.
new delhi, jun 15 (pti) a pan-india 'fraud-to-phone' network has been busted by security agencies, which have also arrested eight people and seized nearly 300 new mobile phones bought with stolen funds, officials said on tuesday.
new delhi (reuters) -having barely got over a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections, india was gripped with alarm on tuesday over risks of a resurgence as crowds thronged railway stations and shopping malls a day after major cities relaxed curbs on movement.
the capital new delhi, in the north, and tech hub bengaluru, in the south, were among the cities that have begun lifting strict lockdowns as the nationwide tally of new infections  dropped to its lowest level in more than two months.
after a strict five-week lockdown, authorities in delhi have fully re-opened shops and malls, and allowed restaurants to have 50% seating.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
cashew nut trees are native to brazil but have been cultivated all over the world.
like most nuts, cashews have several health benefits and can be easily tweaked into dishes.
in addition, they are also used as an alternative to dairy products in the form of cashew milk, cashew-based cheese, and cream.
here, we cover the various health benefits of cashews.
a speedy vaccination programme could compensate for the government's initial laxity displayed in covid managementa look back at the two weeks of french open which crowned novak djokovic and barbora krejcikova as the men's and women's champions.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the men allegedly forced him to chant jai sri ram, cut saifi's beard and assaulted him for 4 hours in loni.
likely to be priced at rs 1,114 per dose in india, novavax vaccine will be a two-dose jab like the other vaccinesin the last few years, nearly 800,000 rohingya have fled from myanmarso mad that i just learned this.
.
.
after coming to power in bengal in 2011, mamata, besides working on governance, has also created more space for youngsters in the party.
apple reportedly aims to provide a non-invasive solution to check blood sugar levels without pricking the skin.
a 62-year-old woman died allegedly after being stabbed 20 times by a man who also sexually assaulted her in east delhi's dallupura village.
search for scalp psoriasis treatment options.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everhyderabad (telangana) [india], june 15 (ani): oracle india head and his wife were booked for cheating customers by collecting huge advance amounts for the projects using the goodwill of the oracle company, informed the police on tuesday.
sister lucy was was a prominent face in the protest against rape-accused bishop mulakkal.
in the latest development in the rajasthan political crisis saga, six mlas, who broke away from the bsp and joined the congress, went into a huddle on monday (14 june), reports india today.
this came after the sachin pilot group sought fulfilment of their demands for political and ministerial appointments.
chinese virologist shi zhengli photographed inside a laboratory at the wuhan institute of virology in wuhan, china in 2017 (source: afp)the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fueled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones — including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans — in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells.
"but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
do not expect much to come from the first face-to-face meeting between the two leadersfind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilefind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilebiden says us not seeking 'conflict' with russiawith the first summit between joe biden and vladimir putin now upon us in geneva, one should look on this encounter in a different light from the old meetings during the cold war.
the soviet union of the time acted as a great power organised according to certain ideological dogmas and trying to impose the order it praised onto the rest of the world.
the west comprising of the united states and western europe actually practiced the same attitude, but one based on values rather than by an ideology.
today's russia is not a leading power similar to the soviet union.
it's only significant asset is the nuclear arsenal it inherited from the ussr.
economically it is just outside the top 10 nations by gdp and pushes the religious and ethnic values of the "russian world" socially it's looking backwards, celebrating unique russian morality, "traditional values" and glorifying its past over outlining the contours of its future.
there is an argument that it has actually been one of the greater losers of globalisation.
in his early years of putin's time in power, he expressed certain sympathy towards the european union – such as in his 2001 bundestag speech: "as for european integration, we not just support these processes, but we are looking to them with hope".
but as it became clear to putin that neither europe nor the west in general had no enthusiasm for recognising russia as their equal partner, moscow's position changed – and it spent time swinging between putin's harsh talks in munich and bucharest in 2007 and 2008 and former president dmitry medvedev's "reset" from 2009 to 2011. the russian actions over ukraine in 2014, i would argue, was the first expression of a new strategy – the bones of which can be seen in an academic report entitled "new rules or no rules?"
the authors assume that the old order was maybe not very attractive, but stable and enduring – and that it contained the blueprint for "rules" to follow.
the major "rule" was, by some coincidence, the power of force, second, this old world was managed through blocs and alliances, with those in charge of these things responsible for the "order" within them.
third, the idea of sovereignty was considered a universal one, and the sovereign's rights were not subjected to any international laws (governing either the inter-state relations or the internal systems of governance).
what was illegal under such conditions, cannot be considered as "justified"the "rules" then exist only where there's order, and order is established once and for a long time (if not forever).
if the "order" is constantly disrupted or changed, it can-not be regarded as such – and if there's no order, then nobody needs to play by the "rules".
so it was that "post-crimean" russia emerged not as a country that wants to propose its own "rules", but as one that has no trust in "rules" imposed by others.
i believe that for putin, today's world represents chaos – it cannot be anything else because it is changing.
presidents change, crises appear, and new ethical and judicial norms arise.
these developments are incompatible with the very idea of order – so they make any kind of "rules" useless.
therefore, today's world is a scene on which only a 'game without rules' can be played.
the world is now managed in an unordered way so any nation has a right to respond, disobeying the old "rules" and either establishing their own, or acting arbitrarily.
the russian seizure of crimea was an important milestone here: the kremlin organised a referendum after it annexed the territory that was used as a legitimisation of crimea's transfer from ukraine to russia.
for russia to act this way was a "new rule' – and the west was left free to consider whether it was a breach of international law.
the kremlin doesn't establish its own rules in russia's domestic policy – it remains extremely unpredictable – but it denounces any of those that have been recognized by the greater part of international community.
this "game with no rules" is putin's dream as he can rationalise any action.
everything moscow – or russia-connected individuals – have been accused of in recent years that shocked the western world – from poisoning individuals in the streets of british cities, to develop-ing extensive "fake news' farms" and securing the assad regime in syria was "natural" from the point of view of this doctrine.
the kremlin, i believe, realises that it's too weak to pretend to be a part of the community that creates the rules of the contemporary world, but it has proved that it's powerful enough to defy them – and among the "rules" it defies is the rule requiring the statesman to be clear and honest in his dealings.
i would doubt that putin feels guilty about his actions, because he became a strong believer in the idea that there is no order in the entire world, so anything is possible.
for example, if you may jail local opposition activists, why should you refrain from it?i believe today's russia isn't a "soviet union 2.
0" – it is a power guided by a set of ideas completely different from those governing the western world.
for putin, only in an "orderly" world – i. e.  one that allows sovereign states to establish spheres of interest without any concern of international conventions – can moscow be asked to act in an "orderly" way.
and so, russia acts as if the "rules" don't exist.
this very fact makes dealings with putin extremely difficult – and it's what president biden should be prepared for.
the upcoming meeting in geneva is symbolic, the kremlin's spokesperson has already said the russian leadership do not expect any breakthroughs from it.
in geneva – and in any other place where the western-russian "dialogue" may take place during putin's time in power – one will witness an encounter of two different worlds, rather than of two nations that want to try and work together on one single world.
the west isn't looking in a mirror when it comes to russia – it is confronted by an entirely different beast altogether.
vladislav l.  inozemtsev is a special advisor to memri's russian media studies projectjoin thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliesjoe biden is in geneva to meet with vladimir putinapwant to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.

jcvi expected to make recommendation against the move until scientists have more data on the risks
ministers will be advised against the mass rollout of covid vaccinations to children until scientists obtain more data on the risks, the telegraph understands.
experts on the joint committee on vaccination and immunisation (jcvi) are expected to make a recommendation against the vaccination of under-18s in the immediate future.
the committee is understood to be preparing an "interim" statement for release as soon as the end of the week following a meeting on tuesday.
at a meeting, members are understood to have voiced serious ethical concerns about vaccinating children, given that they rarely suffer serious illness from covid.
the statement is set to say more time is needed to assess studies of vaccine rollouts in other countries where children are being vaccinated – including the us and israel – before deciding whether such a programme should be launched in the uk.
a whitehall source said: "nobody is going to green light the mass vaccination of children at this stage.
"scientists want to see more data from the us and elsewhere before taking a firm stand either way.
nobody is going to make a final decision at this point.
the jcvi will want to weigh up the benefits against the risks before vaccinating children, and it wants more data.
"the advice may disappoint ministers, who have instructed officials to be ready to roll out vaccines for children this summer in order to suppress covid and help keep schools open.
ministers have said britain has bought enough of the pfizer vaccine to offer jabs to all children aged between the ages of 12 and 17. teaching unions have also called for the vaccination of children, and on monday prof chris whitty, the chief medical officer, suggested they may need to be vaccinated to ensure that their education can continue without disruption.
asked whether covid jabs would be rolled out to children, prof whitty told a downing street news conference that the "wider question" was about whether this would help limit the disruption the virus was causing to their schooling.
boris johnson also suggested the decision to keep restrictions in place until july 19 was partly timed to coincide with the start of the school holidays, as the spread of the virus among young people will reduce.
in the us, the centers for disease control and prevention recommended that all children aged over 12 should get a covid vaccination in may.
israel – which achieved the fastest rollout to adults globally – has just begun vaccinating those aged 12 to 15. both countries have been able to largely relax covid rules, which will increase pressure on the uk government to follow suit in vaccinating children.
the pfizer vaccine has been deemed safe for those aged 12-15 by the medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency (mhra), so ministers could ignore the jcvi's advice.
a senior government source said: "the pfizer vaccine has been licensed for 12 to 15-year-olds by the mhra, and a number of countries will be vaccinating children in those age groups.
ministers have not received advice, and no decisions have been taken.
"on tuesday, france opened up vaccinations to children aged 12 and over in a bid to ward off a rise in infections as it lifts restrictions.
the uk has the highest take-up of vaccines globally, with 30 million people – including almost all over 50s – now double-jabbed.
later this week the programme will open up bookings to everyone over 18. however, there is concern from some scientists that the high transmissibility of the indian or delta covid variant means the spread of the virus cannot be checked without a still wider rollout of vaccinations.
but in recent days, the jcvi's deputy chairman has expressed increasing concern about a shift to vaccination of children.
prof anthony harden told bbc radio 4's today programme: "we do have to be absolutely sure these vaccines are completely safe.
the mhra said they are safe in trials, but of course that's very different to immunising millions of children.
"we'll be looking very carefully at the data emerging from the states and other countries on vaccines in children before making any assumptions, but we're not there yet with children.
"previously, prof harden had said the benefit to children's health was "pretty marginal" because most get very mild illness, but the case for jabbing them in order to secure their education could be considered.
on tuesday, he declined to comment.
separately, it emerged on tuesday night that ministers are set to announce that covid jabs will become mandatory for care home workers.
we rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
we urge you to turn off your ad blocker for the telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
thank you for your support.
need help?visit our adblocking instructions
page.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
seoul (reuters) digital sex crime is now so pervasive in south korea that the fear of it is affecting the quality of life for women and girls, with many victims saying they had considered suicide or leaving the country, a human rights watchdog said on wednesday (june 16).
south korea has become the global epicentre of spycam the use of tiny, hidden cameras to film victims naked, urinating or having sex.
other cases have involved intimate photos being leaked without permission, or sex abuse such as rapes captured on camera and the videos shared online.
victims are often traumatised further and become "immersed in the abuse" by encounters with police and other justice officials, and by the expectation that they should gather evidence and monitor the internet for new appearances of images of themselves, us-based human rights watch (hrw) said in a report.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared, in south korea that they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," heather barr, the report's author, said in a statement.
"women and girls told us they avoided using public toilets and felt anxious about hidden cameras in public and even in their homes.
an alarming number of survivors of digital sex crimes said they had considered suicide.
"the report, based on 38 interviews and an online survey, said sex crime prosecutions involving illegal filming rose 11-fold between 2008 and 2017, according to data from the korean institute of criminology.
south korean president moon jae-in has called for police to investigate the growing number of sexual abuse claims, including recently among members of the military.
last year, police broke up an online network that lured dozens of women and underage girls into what authorities have called "virtual enslavement" by blackmailing them into sending increasingly degrading and sometimes violent sexual imagery of themselves.
hrw said the government needs to do more by increasing legal penalties for convicted offenders, boosting the number of women among the police, prosecutors, and judges, and changing broader gender inequality that normalises the consumption of non-consensual images.
in 2019, prosecutors dropped 43.
5 per cent of digital sex crime cases compared to 27.
7 per cent of homicide cases and 19 per cent of robbery cases, though the sex crime cases that were prosecuted usually ended in a conviction, the report said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
heart conditions associated with the covid-19 mrna vaccines are extremely rare and it remains unclear if the vaccines are responsible for them, experts told the straits times after a handful of cases raised some concerns.
six individuals here were reported to have suffered myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart) after getting an mrna vaccine, among whom four are young men less than 30 years old.
the other two are a man and a woman both aged above 40. the health sciences authority (hsa) said most of the cases had occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine, and that all have recovered or been discharged well from hospital.
the united states and israel two major users of the mrna vaccines have also reported a slightly increased risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men after the second dose of mrna vaccination.
but there is no need to be overly concerned as these events are rare, experts said.
professor ooi eng eong, an expert on emerging infectious diseases at duke-nus medical school, said it also remains unclear if it is indeed mrna vaccines causing these adverse events and how vaccination could have resulted in them.
as at june 7, more than 1,888,000 people in singapore have received both doses of mrna vaccines by either pfizer biontech or moderna.
an article last friday by the american academy of paediatrics cited a rate of 16 cases of myocarditis/pericarditis per million second doses in people aged 16 to 39 years old.
such inflammation of the heart was also reported in some covid-19 patients last year, most likely the result of an overactive immune system giving rise to the inflammation.
vaccine maker moderna issued a statement last friday stating that it is aware of reports of such cases after people took its vaccine, but added that it has not established a causal association with its vaccine after carefully reviewing the available safety data to date.
as mrna vaccines lead to a similar, but milder, immune response, they could also give rise to inflammation, said prof ooi.
"but these cases, if indeed caused by the vaccine, will be much fewer compared with covid-19-induced heart inflammation ones.
"it is also important to note that the occurrence of some rare events is natural for any vaccine, especially when large numbers have been vaccinated, he stressed.
"no other vaccine has come under the scrutiny as covid-19 vaccines.
in about six months, over 1.
5 billion people have been vaccinated under close observation," he added.
he said it is unclear why young men may be more susceptible, and that it is difficult to conduct the necessary studies to determine a correlation.
"nonetheless, we can expect more detailed description of what happens to these cases in the coming months, from those that have been treated in the us and israel.
the picture may become clearer then.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said they "have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law".
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
janusz michallik picks which potential transfer would have a greater impact in the premier league title race next season.
(1:35)the opening day of the 2021-22 premier league season will see manchester city begin their title defence away at tottenham hotspur on aug.  14, the league announced on wednesday.
pep guardiola's city will have to face spurs, arsenal, leicester, chelsea and liverpool in their first seven games of the season.
the complete guide to the 2021-22 premier league season
- ogden: city, chelsea given horror start but does it matter?
runners-up manchester united begin their season at old trafford against rivals leeds united followed by a more favourable run against southampton, wolverhampton wanderers, newcastle, west ham united, aston villa and everton.
following a poor defence of their 2019-20 premier league title, liverpool's season starts with a trip to norwich.
they will face both chelsea and city at anfield in their opening seven games.
liverpool's toughest run, however, comes during the christmas period with three away games at spurs, leicester and chelsea as well as a game against leeds at anfield on dec.  26. champions league winners chelsea play crystal palace at home on aug.  14 followed by a london derby with arsenal.
alongside their early fixture with liverpool, they also face spurs away in the first six games.
chelsea's participation in the club world cup means they will have to rearrange games in december, with fixtures for the competition in japan yet to be released.
arsenal -- who finished eighth -- must play liverpool, city and north london rivals spurs in the first month-and-a-half of the league.
no premier league matches will take place on the weekend of jan.  29 as part of the fifa international match calendar.
the opening game between city and spurs could have added significance should the latter's talisman harry kane make a move to manchester this summer.
espn reported in may that kane had told spurs he wants to leave the club and city are one of the leaders to secure the england international's signature.
the 2019-20 season was disrupted by the covid-19 pandemic which forced a halt to the competition for 100 days and the following season saw fans kept out of stadiums for much of it.
the attempt of six clubs to join the breakaway european super league in april saw fans protest both outside and inside stadiums, with united fans breaking into old trafford to express their unhappiness with the club's owners.
on the pitch, guardiola's side ran away with the title, wrapping up the league on may 11, finishing 12 points clear of rivals united.
while city also won the carabao cup, they lost 1-0 to chelsea in the champions league final and leicester city walked away with the fa cup.
you can change your city from here.
we serve personalized stories based on the selected citysigns you have an emotional connection with your partnerred, yellow and green wristbands are the new pandemic accessories that indicate boundarieshow you behave as a spouse, as per your zodiac signhealthy vs unhealthy relationshipwhat's in virginity to "lose" after all?when lilies bloomed.
.
.
who says working more than 55 hours/week is leading to a rise in premature deaths!coronavirus explained: do covid-19 recovered patients need just a single dose of covid-19 vaccine?
here's what experts want you to knowexercises that can help you run fasterhuman behaviour crucial to contain the covid spread, warns aiims directorconfused between covid-19 and allergy?
here is how to differentiateweight loss: 5 ways to eat carbs when trying to shed kilosshilpa shetty or tara sutaria: who wore polka-dots better?how digital fashion has revolutionised the fashion industrykarisma kapoor is the queen of at-home fashionbest jewellery gifts for your fatheraccessories that are trending in 2021refugees in paris with an eye on fashionjapanese diy scrubs for super soft skin15 at-home beauty tips and tricks every woman should knowhome-made hair oils for bouncy hairhomemade scrubs for pink lipsyour mood can be detrimental for your skinmouni roy uses these diy beauty hackscan massages increase your chances of getting pregnant?5 herbs that can help you get pregnantcan endometriosis cause infertility?
here is all that you need to knowis it alright to take a pregnancy test at night?pregnancy care: precautions to take during high-risk pregnancywhat is endometriosis and how can it affect fertility?what is molar pregnancy and its treatmentsex after childbirth: why women do not want it and why it is alrightpregnant and covid positive?
the risk to you and your child may be lowcoronavirus second wave: can pregnant women pass on covid-19 to newborns?this is why women gain weight after pregnancytested covid positive during pregnancy?
here is what you should dostoring breast milk: how long breast milk can be stored outside vs in the refrigeratorviral: south african woman gives birth to 10 babies, may set a world recordmost kids with covid asymptomatic: ministry of healththe 2-3-4 nap schedule that will help to put your baby to sleepcoronavirus vaccine: lactating mothers now allowed to get covid-19 vaccine, top faqs clearedsevere covid-19 infections are rare in newborns, suggests studyaverage age of first menstruation and how parents should handle itsigns you were raised by a narcissist (and how to break the cycle)physical symptoms of stress in kidsstages of puberty: stages and development in boys and girlschild bullying: mom pleads parents to look into kids' mental health after 11-year-old daughter dies by suicide3 misconceptions about your teen's bad behaviourhow to be a good parent to your lgbtq childhow to encourage a good sibling relationshipcoronavirus vaccination for kids: when will we have a vaccine ready for kids?
which companies are working on it?meghan markle and prince harry announce the birth of their second child, lilibet 'lili' dianahow different will meghan markle and prince harry's birth announcement of their baby girl be?lunar eclipse 2021: is chandra grahan harmful for pregnant women?
"my pre teen daughter doesn't want to spend time with family""my son and daughter are always fighting.
how can i manage it?
""my daughter loves being applauded.
is it a healthy habit?
""how do i handle adult content that we watch with our daughter?
""my son is a slow learner and doesn't want to write""my in-laws make my daughter feel left out"why age matters when you trying to have a babymother's day: prenatal yoga asanas perfect for moms-to-be#mindfulparenting: 5 solutions to active active childrentips for a smoother conceptionhow to encourage a good sibling relationshipwhen, what and how to introduce solid foods to babiesrefrain from posting comments that are obscene, defamatory or inflammatory, and do not indulge in personal attacks, name calling or inciting hatred against any community.
help us delete comments that do not follow these guidelines by marking them offensive.
let's work together to keep the conversation civil.
now reading: the recent surge in covid-19 cases and with children being equally affected, parents are extremely worried about a possible third wave and how it will impact their kids.
while many have claimed that children are the worst hit amongst the population, experts have denied these claims and said that the second wave has impacted everyone equally.
in light of the increased rate of covid-19 infection amongst kids and the unavailability of vaccines, parents have entered a state of panic and chaos regarding the safety of their children.
the pediatrics association has come to the forefront and have advised parents to not be scared of the virus as it may not have any serious impact on kids.
earlier, aiims director dr.  randeep guleria has also clarified and stated that while children will be impacted the most during the third covid-19 wave, there has been no solid evidence to prove the same.
the indian academy of pediatrics (iap) has also said that although children remain prone to infection, it is "highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children".
additionally, there has been no evidence to suggest whether the children who contract covid-19 will have any serious complications.
read more: covid-19 third wave: malnourished kids are at greater risk of infectionthe latest reports from the lancet covid-19 commission india task force, which includes prominent paediatric experts from all across the country, states that there is no evidence to suggest that children will be worst hit by an anticipated third wave.
the group of experts teamed together to find out a possible way to ensure the safety of the children against covid-19.
they were asked to evaluate the evidence and suggest practical clinical tools and strategies for providers and guidance to the policymakers and the public, so as to collectively protect the children during this crisis.
although the data was limited, it was found that the mortality rate amongst severe covid-19 positive children below the age of 10 was 2.
4 percent.
whereas 40 percent of the children who had succumbed to the disease had co-morbidities and 9 percent of all hospitalised covid-positive children had severe symptoms.
all the participating kids were below the age of 10. globally, children constituted 1.
3-3.
2 percent of the total reported hospitalised cases.
the mortality rate was also said to be "significantly low" amongst kids.
akin to adults and older adults, children also experience the various symptoms of covid-19.
some of them are highly common and prevalent in all age groups.
that said, fever, runny nose, fatigue, sore throat and cough may be some of the most common symptoms experienced by kids.
besides all other common and classic symptoms of covid, recent reports have suggested an increase in the number of multisystem inflammatory syndrome cases in children (mis-c) infected with covid-19.
children with mis-c condition have come up with severe inflammation in various organs of the body, including heart, lungs, blood vessels, kidneys, digestive system, brain, skin or eyes.
read more: coronavirus in kids: third wave dangerous for kids?
clearing some mythsaccording to the latest reports, children with a mild infection can be treated in home isolation, recommending symptomatic treatment with paracetamol.
however, if the symptoms are life-threatening and continue to progress, it is crucial to seek medical help.
if you believe covid isn't impacting kids mentally and emotionally, then it is untrue.
while unlike adults, children may lack the ability to express, they also bear the psychological ills of the pandemic.
during such unpredictable times, where not only are children getting affected by the virus, many have lost one or both their parents to covid-19.
this has surely taken a grievous toll on children's psychology.
the health experts have said, "it is imperative to recognise as a society that in our well-meaning attempt to protect our young ones from disease and keep them physically safe, we do not inadvertently impair their minds by curtailing access to expression for their inherent curiosity, creativity, and joy.
"find out about the latest lifestyle, fashion & beauty trends, relationship tips & the buzz on health & food.
thanks for subscribing.
please click here to subscribe other newsletters that may interest you, and you'll always find stories you want to read in your inbox.
a weekly guide to the biggest developments in health, medicine and wellbeing delivered to your inboxthank you for subscribing!
your subscription is confirmed for news related to biggest developments in health, medicine and wellbeing.
making mosquitoes fight mosquitoes to prevent dengueshould you buy cryptos?why the model tenancy act is the 'unlock' india immediately needsopinion: 'hey ram', 'et tu, brute' and a 56-inch mytha weekly guide to the biggest developments in health, medicine and wellbeing delivered to your inboxthank you for subscribing!
your subscription is confirmed for news related to biggest developments in health, medicine and wellbeing.
a hidden-camera search squad, consisting of student and citizen volunteers, scan a restroom near a public pool in changwon, south korea on 25 jul 2018 (source: getty images)south korean authorities are failing to properly tackle the country's widespread digital sex crimes against women, which have a devastating impact on victims, a human rights watch (hrw) report said wednesday.
south korea is the world's 12th largest economy and a leading technological power, but remains a male-dominated society with a poor record on women's rights.
digital sex crimes, or the sharing of intimate pictures or video without permission, are a massive problem in the country, where "molka" or spycam videos secretly filmed in public places are common, as is "revenge porn" — private sex videos filmed or shared non-consensually by disgruntled exes.
south korean officials "in the criminal legal system –- most of whom are men –- often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes," said hrw's heather barr, the report author.
in 2019, almost 45 percent of sexual digital crime cases were dropped by the country's prosecution, compared with 19 percent of robbery cases and 27.
7 percent of homicides, the report said.
even when there were convictions, it found almost 80 percent of perpetrators received just "a suspended sentence, a fine, or a combination of the two" last year.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared.
.
.
they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," barr said.
spycams have become so prevalent that female police officers now regularly inspect public toilets, with women telling hrw they avoided using the amenities altogether.
one woman who spoke to barr was given a clock by a male employer, which she put in her bedroom — only later finding out the device had been streaming footage to him for over a month.
victims often feel deep shame and are socially ostracised, and an "alarming number" told hrw they had contemplated suicide.
the report comes as an anti-feminist backlash grows in south korea, with companies accused of endorsing "radical feminism" being boycotted by some men.
barr said "widely accepted harmful views" about women and girls were the root cause of the phenomenon.
the government has "not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal," she said.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
josiah mayo surveyed the ocean's surface on friday, watching the bubbles that emerged from his fishing partner's underwater breathing gear.
it was michael packard's second plunge into the ocean off the coast of cape cod that morning and he had already caught about 100 pounds of lobster.
but the bubbles suddenly stopped.
then, an explosion of white water erupted from the sea.
mayo wasn't sure what he was witnessing.
a burly fish thrashed before him and for a split second he thought it was a great white shark.
then mayo saw its flukes cut through the water and observed it violently shake its head.
"this was a humpback whale," mayo, 43, told himself, as he recounted in an interview with the washington post.
"it was a relief because it wasn't a shark, which meant michael would be all done at that point.
"moments later there was another mighty boil of white water and packard soared out of the ocean and flopped back down.
mayo sped the boat up next to packard, who was floating in a puffed-out drysuit thanks to the whale's speedy ascent to the surface.
"i was inside it.
i was inside its mouth," packard, 56, told mayo.
"it tried to eat me.
"packard's harrowing tale is rare and unheard of among the experienced divers of provincetown, mass.
humpback whales don't harm people on purpose, said mayo, who worked on whale-watching boats as a teenager and whose father is a premier whale scientist.
mayo said his father and his colleagues believe the only logical explanation was that the whale swallowed packard by accident.
"it took [packard] from behind and it seemed like it fully enveloped him immediately," mayo said.
"that's kind of remarkable and so we can only imagine the whale was probably feeding.
"mayo added he believed it was a young whale.
"i like to think of it as a teenager or a puppy.
.
.
.
it probably doesn't know what it's doing too well," he said.
a similar incident occurred off the coast of port elizabeth, south africa, in 2019 when a bryde's whale scooped up a marine conservationist documenting a mass migration.
experts who witnessed the event also said it was an accident, noting the whales are "gentle giants," one said in a short documentary.
diving is a dangerous occupation and packard, a provincetown native who has been commercial diving since he was 18, has come close to death more times than most, mayo said.
while lobster diving in 2017, packard came across the body of a fellow diver who was lost at sea six years earlier.
packard has gotten lost a few times himself, mayo said, thanks to a strong current that carried him far from the boat.
mayo, fortunately, found him each time.
packard spent years diving for abalone in the shark-filled waters off the coast of central california, mayo said.
he's gotten concussions, injured his hand a few times and had two close encounters with great white sharks in cape cod.
"clearly they weren't interested in eating him because they would have, since they could have," mayo said.
packard also nearly died in 2001 when he was in a plane crash in costa rica and suffered life-threatening injuries.
three people died and at least four others survived.
on friday around 5:30 a. m. , mayo and packard set off into calm water in their fishing vessel, named the "ja'n j" after packard's 12- and 16-year-old sons.
the two have worked together for about 15 years and often fish for lobster, bluefin tuna and mackerel.
packard's first dive that morning "wasn't great," mayo said, requiring his partner to go back in a few more times.
at about 8 a. m. , packard plunged about 45 feet deep, and almost reached the ocean floor when he "felt this truck hit me and everything just went dark," he said in an interview with wbts.
"and i could feel just .
.
.
hard stuff all around me," packard said.
"and i just thought, 'did i just get eaten by a white shark?'
and then i said, 'no, i don't feel any teeth. '
and i said, 'oh my god, i'm in the mouth of a whale.
with his mouth shut. '
"packard felt the whale swimming and shoved his breathing regulator back into his mouth.
"i'm like, 'this is how you're gonna go, michael.
this is how you're going to die.
in the mouth of a whale,' " he recalled thinking.
for about 30 to 40 seconds, packard twisted, turned and coped with an agonizing pressure on his legs.
he could feel the whale's forceful head shakes.
then came the light.
"i just got thrown out of his mouth, into the water — there was white water everywhere," he said.
"and i just was lying on the surface floating and saw his tail and he went back down.
and i was like, 'oh my god, i got out of that.
i survived.
'"with the help of a friend who was fishing nearby and witnessed the incident, mayo gently pulled packard out of the water and removed his drysuit.
packard was calm and fully cognizant, mayo said, and told the men he thought his legs were broken.
they also worried that packard had an embolism because the whale drove him up to the surface so quickly, a "no-no in diving," mayo said.
mayo then called the ambulance, rescue squad and packard's wife and drove full-speed toward the dock.
hospital staff were in awe of packard's story, he said in an "ask me anything" on reddit on sunday.
"i said 'i got stuck in a whale's mouth,'" packard's son wrote on behalf of his father.
"all the nurses and doctors at the hospital came to see me and ask me about it.
one nurse came in with a notepad, she asked me for lottery numbers!
"after tests, doctors told packard he had no broken bones and there were no signs of an embolism.
his legs were badly bruised, and he had a dislocated knee.
doctors sent him home later that day.
packard's story quickly spread throughout the town and eventually made national and international headlines.
though packard's experience appears fantastical, his reputation among locals as an experienced angler made his account all the more believable, mayo said.
"if it was some yahoo, i think we'd be arguing if it actually happened," mayo said.
"you see him narrating what happened and it's just .
.
.
so very clearly true and obvious what happened.
"packard's bruised legs have forced him to stay grounded as they heal, but he's already planning his next trip out into the ocean.
"it looks like being the tough son of a gun he is, he's ready to be back at it as soon as he can be," mayo said.
"i think we'll probably be diving in a week, which is pretty remarkable.
"the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
singapore: telok blangah drive food centre will close for three days from wednesday (jun 16) after a hawker there tested positive for covid-19, member of parliament rachel ong said on tuesday.
the hawker, a 42-year-old singaporean, was listed as case 64218 in the ministry of health's (moh) daily update on monday.
he is a family member of a covid-19 case from thebukit merah view market clusterand was placed on quarantine on jun 13. he had developed body aches on jun 12 and a fever the day after when he sought treatment at singapore general hospital.
the food centre will be closed from wednesday to friday "for deep cleaning and disinfection by the west coast town council", said ms ong in a facebook post.
she added that the national environment agency and the telok blangah shopkeepers & stallholders association have also been assisting stallholders with their concerns and enquiries.
"the town council has also put up notices at the food centre and neighbouring blocks to inform our residents," said ms ong.
"the safety of our residents and stallholders are our topmost priority and we will continue to work to ensure that the necessary precautions are in place.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
london: premier league champions manchester city will start the defence of their title away to tottenham after the fixtures for the 2021-22 season were unveiled on wednesday (jun 16).
city are among the sides heavily linked with spurs striker harry kane, throwing up the tantalising possibility that the england captain could line up against his boyhood club on the opening weekend.
pep guardiola's side won the league by 12 points last season ahead of rivals manchester united, who open their campaign against old foes leeds at old trafford.
both clashes were played behind closed doors on leeds' return to the top flight last season, but hopes are high for significant crowd numbers for the coming season.
a 40,000 crowd will witness the euro 2020 semi-finals and final at wembley in july as part of a uk government pilot scheme.
elsewhere on the weekend of august 14, new boys brentford begin life back in the top flight for the first time in 75 years with a london derby at home to arsenal, while championship winners norwich entertain liverpool on their return to the premier league.
champions league winners chelsea welcome managerless crystal palace to stamford bridgethere are a number of early meetings between the 'big six'.
liverpool host chelsea on the third weekend of the season before the blues host manchester city in a repeat of the champions league final on september 25. liverpool renew their rivalry with city on october 2 at anfield and their clash at the etihad on april 9 could be key in the title race.
united and liverpool face off at old trafford on october 23 and march 19 at anfield.
all fixtures are still subject to change for tv coverage.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
jiuquan, china: china will send three men to space in its first crewed mission in nearly five years, including the country's oldest astronaut to go into space, part of an ambitious plan to complete a space station by the end of next year.
china is expected to launch the crewed spacecraft shenzhou-12 at 9.
22am on thursday (jun 17) in jiuquan in northwestern gansu province, an official at the china manned space agency said on wednesday.
the astronauts are nie haisheng, 56, liu boming, 54, and tang hongbo, 45, ji qiming, assistant director at the china manned space agency, told reporters.
shenzhou-12, meaning "divine vessel", will be the third of 11 missions needed to complete china's space station by 2022. china began construction of the space station this year with the launch of tianhe the first and largest of the station's three modules in late april.
the shenzhou-12 crew is to live on the tianhe, which means "harmony of the heavens", a cylinder 16.
6m long and 4.
2m in diameter, for three months.
the mission will be led by nie, a native of central hubei province and a former air force pilot.
he will be the oldest chinese astronaut to go to space.
the shenzhou-12 will be nie's third space outing, after the shenzhou-6 mission in 2005 and the shenzhou-10 mission in 2013. it will be liu's second mission to space and tang's first.
the backup astronauts for the mission are zhai zhigang, 54, wang yaping, 41 and ye guangfu, 40. china's last crewed flight mission was in 2016 when two men chen dong and jing haipeng were sent via the shenzhou-11 spacecraft to tiangong-2, a prototype of the space station where they later stayed for about a month.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
if you ever wondered what it would be like for a human to be swallowed by a humpback whale finding nemo style, 56-year-old lobster diver michael packard can now tell the tale.
packard joined his son, jacob, for a reddit ask me anything yesterday, where he answered all pressing questions about what happened when he was fully swallowed by a whale while off the coast of provincetown, massachusetts while working last friday.
read moreman, do the cubs need to shut uppickup trucks keep getting bigger, more dangeroushow to make your air conditioner more effective and efficient when temperatures soarlet's talk about <em>in the heights</em> and the erasure of dark-skinned afro-latinx folkshear me out: the infield fly rule is dumb and needs to be done away withaccording to packard, he was forty-five feet below the surface when he felt a shove, then he was consumed by darkness.
in the ama he says his initial thought was that it was a shark, but "due to the lack of teeth and the size of it [he] soon realized that what [he] was in was a whale.
"packard was inside the whale's mouth for 30-40 seconds with limited mobility while the whale struggled to spit him out.
while inside the whale's mouth the diver lost his regulator.
thankfully he found it quickly, or he most likely would have suffocated in the pitch black.
convinced he was going to die that day, the father of two shared that his potential final thoughts were about his wife and kids.
humpback whales are not known for going after humans and packard was likely swallowed by accident while the whale scoured for krill or small fish.
even if the whale was really determined to swallow packard whole, it's fist-wide throat would have prevented it.
when it comes to how it the creatures' mouth felt wrapped around his body, it's understandably difficult for packard to describe.
"it was full of water, and i could feel the muscles of its mouth convulsing around me, it was a really strange feeling to be sure," packard says.
"can't draw a meaningful comparison.
"packard's friends swiftly rushed him to the cape cod hospital after the whale released him not too far from the boat, where he was treated for bruising and a dislocated knee.
at the hospital, packard says all the doctors and nurses stopped by to see him and hear his unbelievable story.
"one nurse came in with a notepad, she asked me for lottery numbers!"
packard says.
the series deadliest catch shows that trapping and fishing can be gruesome, and it's common for lobster divers to get swept out to sea or die from the spins.
however, packard will not let his brush with death keep him from the work he's dedicated fifteen years of his life to for too long.
"speaking as jacob, i don't even need to ask this," his son says.
"i have no doubt in my mind he will do everything he can to keep diving, it's his life and passion.
"a doctor at the hospital that treated michael packard after the alleged whale encounter told the new york post he should have been more injured.
the dogs had been trapped in the 400-foot-wide sinkhole in the central mexican state of puebla for four days.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
get a whiter smile, just in time for those post-lockdown pictures!fine lines, dark spots, dry skin — none of 'em stand a chance.
'mind blown,' says one of 6,400 five-star reviewers.
at prices this low, you can snag a few.
top surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
maryann organics neck firming cream is packed with top-notch ingredients to nourish your skin and maintain a youthful glow.
the singer and talk show host spoke to mayim bialik about divorce, therapy and fighting to "be me.
"the 24-year-old opened up about her journey to find happiness outside of the gym.
you may be surprised by how pressure washing can transform your home.
see for yourself.
look for nearby pressure washing services.
the songstress has declared this "big girl summer.
"the supermodel is still a natural beauty!you won't remember how you ever managed without the echo show 5. so mad that i just learned this.
.
.
the english star was a vision in yellow versace.
on monday, lizzo shared several photos of herself wearing a kente cloth patterned bikini by black-owned u. k.  based swimwear brand ashanti swimwear.
she also included a video where she posed for fans in bright green sunglasses.
steph curry's sister is tackling the topic of mental health with her new podcast.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
jazz jennings, 20,  became famous in 2007 when she appeared on '20/20' with barbara walters.
now, the transgender activist joined yahoo!
for pride evolution, a one-hour discussion on the celebration of pride, to discuss her journey.
having a baby during the pandemic has its challenges.
lifestyle expert anna de souza shares her tips for transforming your outdoor space into a summer oasis.
search for scalp psoriasis treatment options.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everpaulina porizkova is a natural beauty.
on monday, the 56-year-old modeling legend shared a black and white photo of herself from a recent issue of unconditional magazine.
in it, she's wearing a cut-out crochet dress that showed a little skin.
her hair's styled in messy waves and her face is beaming.
the pair talked about a shared passion — early childhood development — and "could have kept going for hours!
"at prices this low, you can snag a few.
three astronauts will blast off from the gobi desert in china's first manned flight to its new space station (source: afp / china news service)astronauts blasting off on thursday for china's first manned mission to its new space station will have a choice of 120 different types of food and "space treadmills" for entertainment during their stay, china's space agency said.
the mission will be china's longest crewed space mission to date and the first in nearly five years, as beijing pushes forward with its ambitious programme to establish itself as a space power.
the astronauts will spend three months onboard the station, which has separate living modules for each of them, as well as a shared bathroom, dining area, and a communication centre to send emails and allow two-way video calls with ground control.
the astronauts will be able to work off their range of dinner options — which officials assured reporters were all both nutritious and tasty — on the space treadmills or bicycles.
the long march-2f rocket that will get them there will lift off at 9.
22 a. m.  local time (0122gmt) from the jiuquan launch centre base in northwest china's gobi desert, the china manned space agency (cmsa) said at a press conference on wednesday.
the mission's commander, nie haisheng, was among the first batch of astronauts selected to be trained in 1998, and has already participated in two spaceflight missions.
he is a decorated air force pilot in the people's liberation army, and the others in his team are also members of the chinese military.
their shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the main section of the tiangong space station, named tianhe, which was placed in orbit on april 29. another 11 missions are planned over the next year and a half to complete the construction of tiangong in orbit, including the attachment of solar panels and two laboratory modules.
china's desire for a human outpost of its own in earth orbit was fuelled by a us ban on its astronauts on the international space station (iss).
"we are willing to carry out international cooperation with any country that is committed to the peaceful use of outer space," ji qiming of the cmsa told reporters on wednesday.
the iss — a collaboration between the us, russia, canada, europe and japan — is due for retirement after 2024, although nasa has said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. tiangong — which will be much smaller than the iss — is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.
— afp © 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore nine more covid-19 cases have been confirmed to be linked to the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster, most of whom are food stall workers there or their household contacts, said the ministry of health (moh) on tuesday (june 15) night.
this brings the total number of cases in the cluster to 25. the food centre will have its closure extended to june 26 for cleaning and to break the chain of transmission, said moh.
it has been closed since june 13 and was meant to be reopened on wednesday.
"with the detection of more cases among the market and food centre staff and their close contacts, which suggests that there is ongoing spread with wider transmission, the closure of 115 bukit merah view market and food centre will be extended to june 26," it said.
overall, there were 14 confirmed cases of covid-19 on tuesday, taking singapore's total to 62,315. all were locally transmitted within the community, with no new imported cases.
four of the community cases are unlinked, and 10 are linked to existing cases.
of the linked cases, five had already been placed under quarantine, while the other five were detected through surveillance.
the four unlinked cases include a 36-year-old housewife who developed a fever on june 8 and lost her sense of taste and smell on june 10. she sought medical treatment on monday, when she visited a general practitioner, where she was administered both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
both test results came back positive for covid-19 infection.
her serology test result is pending.
she is a household contact of a 35-year-old male singaporean who works as a senior executive at nets, and who is a linked case detected through surveillance.
tuesday is the first day since june 29, 2020 to have zero imported cases reported.
there were also no new cases from workers' dormitories.
the weekly total number of community cases is 60 this week, down from 93 the previous week.
but the number of unlinked cases has risen to 18 in the past week, compared with 10 cases in the week before.
there are currently 44 active clusters, down from 46 on monday.
as at tuesday night, 137 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 233 are recuperating at community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: a 42-year-old man has been arrested for alleged disorderly behaviour at a funeral in boon lay, the police said on tuesday (jun 15).
on monday, police reported that14 men were arrestedfor being suspected members of an unlawful society after a large group of people turned up at the funeral, which was held on sunday in the vicinity of block 191 boon lay drive.
all the 15 arrests, including that of the 42-year-old suspect, took place on sunday, said the police, adding they were aware that several videos of a funeral procession were circulating online.
videos seen by cna show a large crowd of people walking with a group carrying a coffin.
the videos also show people gathered at a car park where a funeral truck is parked.
cna has contacted west coast town council for more information.
on tuesday, police said that the 14 suspects who were arrested are aged between 17 and 40.
"preliminary investigations revealed that two purported secret society members were allegedly wearing shirts emblazoned with their secret society's insignia," added the police.
anyone convicted of being a member or acting as a member of an unlawful society can be fined up to s$5,000, jailed for up to three years, or both.
the police are also looking into potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures during the funeral procession.
those found guilty of flouting a covid-19 control order can be fined up to s$10,000 on first conviction, jailed up to six months, or both.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
loading.
.
.
tuesday, 15 jun 2021 07:42 am myt

initial reports from israel and the united states suggest a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis associated with the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccines.
― reuters pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
singapore, june 15 — the risk of medical complications from covid-19 continues to "far outweigh" that from getting the vaccines, such as heart conditions associated with the after-effects, three independent medical organisations said in a joint statement yesterday (june 14).
the chapter of cardiologists at the college of physicians, the academy of medicine and the singapore cardiac society said that they continue to recommend covid-19 vaccination for eligible patients and will continue to "monitor the situation closely and provide professional guidance accordingly".
"covid-19 vaccination greatly reduces the risk of infection and its serious complications in the majority of individuals, and helps the population achieve herd immunity," they added.
singapore has approved two vaccines for use here from pharmaceutical firms pfizer-biontech and moderna, which are the vaccines the three organisations refer to in their statement.
these vaccines use the new messenger ribonucleic acid (mrna) technology to "instruct" human cells to make a spike protein that triggers an immune system response against the coronavirus.
the spike protein is what viruses use to enter human cells and cause infection.
this is different from the traditional approach where a weakened or inactivated virus with its whole spike protein is used in vaccines to produce antibodies.
last friday, the ministry of health (moh) said in a news release that its expert committee for covid-19 vaccination has advised "adolescents and younger men" to avoid strenuous physical activity for a week after their second dose of the mrna vaccines as a precaution against a "small risk" of heart inflammation.
they should also seek medical attention promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
in singapore, as of june 7, the health sciences authority (hsa) has reported four men aged 18 to 30 having myocarditis or pericarditis after they received their second jab.
another two cases involved a man and a woman who are both above 40 years old.
these are inflammatory conditions affecting the heart muscles (myocarditis) and the lining covering the heart (pericarditis).
the three medical organisations noted in their statement that various reports suggest that covid-19 is associated with both myocarditis and pericarditis, adding that "published rates vary widely".
in the largest and most complete of these studies, all patients — all young competitive athletes — who were infected by the coronavirus later underwent cardiac mri scans, they added.
the study showed that the incidence of myocarditis was 2.
3 per cent (ranging from 0 to 7.
6 per cent at different institutions), the equivalent of 2,300 for every 100,000 patients infected.
"the data so far is only available for the mrna vaccines produced by pfizer-biontech and moderna.
"initial reports from israel and the united states suggest a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis associated with the second dose of the mrna covid-19 vaccines.
"our own singapore data is too small to be definitive," the organisations said.
"nonetheless, preliminary estimates from the us suggest that the overall risk from the second dose of the mrna vaccines is about 1.
6 cases per 100,000 doses, with risk primarily in males under the age of 30.
"hsa has said that the two cases in singapore of those above 40 years of age "is within the baseline incidence rate", while the four involving the men aged 18 to 30 "is at the upper end of the expected range for this age group, based on background incidence rates".
the three organisations added yesterday that people who develop chest discomfort, breathlessness or palpitations after covid-19 vaccination should seek urgent medical attention.
"after vaccination, and especially after the second dose, strenuous activity should be avoided for one week. "
― todayloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
singapore — finance minister and multi-ministry taskforce (mtf) co-chair lawrence wong has raised the possibility of a delay in the next stage of singapore's re-opening following a recent outbreak of covid-19 community cases.
in a video posted on his facebook page on wednesday (16 june), wong noted that a further easing of pandemic restrictions, including the resumption of dining in at hawker centres and eateries, is scheduled to take place on 21 june.
singapore is currently in phase 3 (heightened alert) of its reopening, which started on 14 june.
"unfortunately, we've had a latest outbreak of cases and we are likely to be dealing now with a very large cluster in bukit merah, where the cases are breaking out not only at the market and the hawker centre but also all around the vicinity.
and day by day we are seeing the number of cases, the cryptic cases in the community are likely to be rising too," he said.
wong was referring to a cluster of infections linked to the bukit merah view market and food centre, which currently has 25 cases.
with this in mind, wong added the government is "evaluating the timeline and the scope of our second stage of opening" and, in consultation with public health experts, would announce its decision soon.
"we want to ensure that we do not have another flare up before we reach sufficiently high levels of vaccination in our community," he said.
in the video, wong also demonstrated the use of an antigen rapid test (art) kit, which can be used for self-testing to detect covid-19.
these kits are currently available at all major pharmacies, with prices ranging from $10 to $13.
"the process is fast, simple and very easy to use.
all of us must get used to the idea of regular testing as part of our routine, like taking our temperatures," said wong.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:of 24 new covid cases in singapore, 19 in communitymore singapore residents identifying as having no religion: censuspopulation growth slowed, higher proportion of singles in singapore: censusbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
more than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took asearch for scalp psoriasis treatment options.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.


lfc


                                    liverpool will begin their 2021-22 premier league campaign with a trip to norwich city.
the new season starts at carrow road for jürgen klopp's men against last term's championship winners.
the reds will end the campaign with a home match versus wolverhampton wanderers at anfield.
see liverpool's full 2021-22 premier league fixture list below.
please note, all dates are subject to change for broadcast purposes and scheduling of european games.
august14 – norwich city (a)
21 – burnley (h)
28 – chelsea (h)september11 – leeds united (a)
18 – crystal palace (h)
25 – brentford (a)october2 – manchester city (h)
16 – watford (a)
23 – manchester united (a)
30 – brighton & hove albion (h)november6 – west ham united (a)
20 – arsenal (h)
27 – southampton (h)
30 – everton (a)december4 – wolverhampton wanderers (a)
11 – aston villa (h)
15 – newcastle united (h)
18 – tottenham hotspur (a)
26 – leeds united (h)
​28 – leicester city (a)january1 – chelsea (a)
15 – brentford (h)
22 – crystal palace (a)february9 – leicester city (h)
12 – burnley (a)
19 – norwich city (h)
26 – arsenal (a)march5 – west ham united (h)
12 – brighton & hove albion (a)
19 – manchester united (h)april2 – watford (h)
9 – manchester city (a)
16 – aston villa (a)
23 – everton (h)
30 – newcastle united (a)may7 – tottenham hotspur (h)
15 – southampton (a)
22 – wolverhampton wanderers (h)
it was his day off and he was resting at home, nursing a fever after getting his second covid-19 vaccine dose a day earlier.
mr muhammad nazlan was watching tv with his wife on sunday night while their three children were out at the playground, located about 50m in front of his housing board unit.
suddenly, his daughter, 10, burst into their first-storey flat, screaming and crying.
mr muhammad, 34, a pest control technician, told the new paper yesterday: "i could not hear what exactly she was saying.
all i knew was something bad had happened to my son.
"i rushed out with my wife and saw my son lying on the ground, his arm stuck to a lamp post.
my son was unconscious but his eyes were still open, and i thought he was gone.
"his eldest son, 14-year-old muhammad rifqy, was playing football with a friend when both teenagers got an electric shock from a lamp post near the fitness corner at block 63 lorong 5 toa payoh.
the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said it received a call for assistance at 8.
25pm and two people were taken to kk women's and children's hospital.
mr muhammad said his son was initially in the intensive care unit but was moved to a regular ward on monday afternoon.
he said rifqy's friend had been discharged.
while his son is conscious, mr muhammad's friend, mr khairul anuar, 36, said rifqy is "not his old self" yet.
"i have been talking to him through video calls.
he is traumatised and his speech is slurred.
sometimes he talks using one word at a time.
but at least he is slowly recovering," said mr khairul, a grabfood rider.
[[nid:532833]]it could have been much worse, if not for mr muhammad's prompt action.
rifqy had lost consciousness from an electric shock after he went to retrieve a ball that had rolled towards the lamp post.
"when i saw him lying there, i quickly tried to pull him away from the lamp post but his arm was stuck to it," said mr muhammad, who is asthmatic.
"that part of his arm looked like it was burned.
my heart felt like something sharp poked it, and i became breathless.
i also felt another two shocks, one in my hand and one in my leg, as i used my hand to pull him away.
"all i could think of was: if he dies, i also die with him.
"mr muhammad said his son seemed as if he had tensed up, and he felt helpless.
"i felt like a useless father because i wanted to give him cpr (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) but people around me were reminding me not to touch him," he said.
the scdf arrived moments later to tend to his son and the friend.
mr muhammad said his son told him the two had got to know each other three days prior to their sunday meeting, and the boy received a jolt when he touched rifqy.
when tnp visited the scene yesterday afternoon, workers were completing the installation of four new lamp posts.
mr muhammad, whose youngest is a five-year-old boy, said staff from bishan-toa payoh town council (btptc), which manages the estate, had contacted him and offered assistance.
in a statement last night, the town council said it had completed checks to establish the probable cause of the electric shock.
"the btptc licensed electrical worker (lew) noticed a small tear to the insulation of the live wire inside the lamp post.
this would not be visible unless we remove the junction box.
"from the finding, the lew assessed that the exposed part of the wire touching the metal part of the lamp post could be the cause of the electric shock," said the town council.
"the lew has also checked other lamp posts within the same circuitry and found no similar situation.
the incident could be an isolated case as there was also no previous similar incident of such nature.
"the btptc added that works to rectify the issue were completed yesterday and it will "continue to ensure the safety of (the) electrical installations (it manages)".
"i have lived in this flat for 13 years.
my children have been playing at the playground since they were babies.
but now, even with new lamp posts installed, i am not sure if it is safe to let my kids play outside any more," said mr muhammad.
"all i can think of is if my son will recover fully.
i am worried because this is not just a fall or a fracture.
i don't know how he will be affected by this in the long run.
"also read: elderly couple and son die after suspected electrocution incident in bathroom of lakeside flatthis article was first published in the new paper.
permission required for reproduction.
coca-cola has lost a staggering $5.
2 billion after cristiano ronaldo's viral press conference stunt at euro 2020. speaking to the media ahead of portugal's opening clash with hungary on tuesday, ronaldo didn't want a bar of two coke bottles sitting on the desk in front of him.
'so happy': christian eriksen's incredible update delights fans'out of this world': euro 2020 stunned by 'ridiculous' momentcoca-cola is the official sponsor of euro 2020 and have placed two bottles in front of everyone speaking at press conferences.
but in a viral moment that has sent social media users into a frenzy, ronaldo picked up the two coca-cola bottles and put them out of sight before holding up his water bottle and saying: "drink water.
"coca-cola probably wouldn't have been impressed by ronaldo's actions, and even less so after taking a look at the stock market on tuesday.
the company saw a staggering $5.
2 billion (au) wiped off its market value in the hours after ronaldo's press conference.
according to the athletic, coca-cola's shares were worth $73.
02 each before the press conference, but dropped to $71.
85 afterwards.
that 1.
6 per cent drop in value is worth the eye-watering total of $5.
2 billion.
coca-cola released a statement after ronaldo's presser, saying "everyone is entitled to their drink preferences" and everyone has different "tastes and needs".
on tuesday, ronaldo became the all-time top scorer at the european championships after two goals in the final minutes helped title holders portugal beat hungary 3-0 in their group f opener.
ronaldo now has 11 goals, taking sole possession of the record he previously shared with france's michel platini on nine.
portugal finally broke the deadlock in a game they dominated thanks to raphael guerreiro six minutes from time just after hungary had a goal ruled out for offside.
a ronaldo penalty and a second effort added to the final score, which was harsh on hungary who worked hard in front of a packed puskas area in budapest the only stadium to be filled to capacity at the euros due to the coronavirus pandemic.
portugal had no trouble controlling the first half but struggled to convert their chances created into goals.
diego jota had a good early opportunity but his powerful header was saved by hungary keeper peter gulacsi, who also managed to block an attempt by ronaldo in the 19th minute when the portuguese superstar was already offside.
ronaldo then wrote his name in the record books with a goal from the spot late in the match after willi orban fouled rafa silva in the box.
the portuguese superstar then scored his 106th for portugal and closed the gap to iranian ali daei's record (109) of the all-time men's international top goalscorer.
"it was important to win, it was a difficult game," ronaldo said.
"i'm grateful to the team for helping me to score two goals and be the man of the match.
now we must go on.
"hungary's szalai said the defeat "is frustrating" and that portugal "didn't work enough to score," while keeper gulacsi believed they needed a little luck to score a goal.
also read: if you had invested rs 25,000 in bitcoin in 2015 this is how rich you would behere's how much money bill gates makes per minutehow much does mark zuckerberg spend on his security?who is the secretive bitcoin billionaire who invented bitcoin?
unveiling satoshi nakamotowith aapbeijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
sick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took amore than half of america's 724 billionaires live in just four states: california, new york (118), florida (68) and texas (64).
the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
tokyo: olympics organisers prepared on tuesday (jun 15) to unveil their latest "playbook" of rules to control covid-19 infections as japan's government pondered whether to extend a state of emergency and senior olympics official john coates arrived in tokyo.
coates, a vice-president of the international olympic committee (ioc) and its point-man for the event, sparked a backlash last month when he said the games would go ahead even if tokyo were under a state of emergency due to the pandemic.
japan's government is considering ending the state of emergency in tokyo and several other prefectures as scheduled on jun 20, butkeeping some curbssuch as on restaurant hours until the olympics start in july, domestic media have said.
economics minister yasutoshi nishimura, in charge of japan's covid-19 response, said that with hospital occupancy and infection rates still high, it was too soon to talk as if lifting the state of emergency was a done deal.
"now is a critical time to call on the public, to suppress infections and to take initiatives for a stable supply of hospital beds," he said.
a decision on the emergency could come as early as thursday, media reported.
organisers' rules, known as a "playbook", already mandate wearing masks by athletes and others in most situations and frequent testing for covid-19.
athletes and members of the media, whose movements will be restricted, will be subject to gps monitoring for the first 14 days of their stay in japan.
the latest update was set to be announced later on tuesday.
about 11,000 athletes and 78,000 journalists, officials and staff are expected at the games.
japan has not suffered the explosive outbreaks seen elsewhere but has still recorded more than 772,000 cases and over 14,000 deaths.
a slow vaccination rollout, though recently accelerating, means only 13per cent of the population has received at least one shot.
suga's support slidesa jun 1 to 9 online survey of companies by think tank tokyo shoko research showed 64 per cent favoured cancelling or postponing the games due to such concerns as the spread of the virus and slow vaccinations.
nearly 60 per cent said doing so would hurt their businesses but just over 40 per cent expected a positive impact.
olympic minister tamayo marukawa told a news conference that pfizer inc would provide doses of its covid-19 vaccine to an additional 20,000 people involved in the olympics and paralympics, kyodo news agency reported, doubling the amount previously promised by the us pharmaceutical firm.
some 80 per cent of qualified athletes have already been vaccinated and the ioc is pushing to raise the number.
japan's often patchy response to the coronavirus has eroded support for prime minister yoshihide suga.
a survey by nhk public tv showed 37 per cent approved of his government against 45 per cent who disapproved, the highest disapproval rating since he took office last september.
more than two-thirds were not persuaded by his explanation of why the games should be held or how they would be made safe.
just under one-third wanted the games cancelled while 61 per cent wanted either a cap on spectators or no spectators at all.
organisers have already decided against allowing spectators from abroad and will make a call on domestic spectators later this month.
reflecting the role of money in decisions to forge ahead, nbcuniversal chief executive jeff shell said on monday the event could be the most profitable olympics in nbc's history.
nbcuniversal, owned by comcast corp, paid us$7.
65 billion to extend its us broadcast rights for the olympics through 2032. the games could provide an opportunity for diplomacy.
japan's yomiuri newspaper said south korean president moon jae-in was arranging a visit to japan timed with the games and seoul is hoping moon will hold his first ever talks with suga then.
japan's top government spokesman, however, denied a summit was in the works amid a spat over islets claimed by both countries.
the relationship between south korea and japan has soured in recent years due to disputes over the islets, war-time history and trade.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore the bukit merah view market and food centre covid-19 cluster has grown by 10 cases, said the ministry of health (moh) on monday night (june 14).
this brings the total number of those infected in the cluster to 16. the ministry of health (moh) said a total of 25 new coronavirus cases were confirmed as at monday, including 19 locally transmitted cases.
of the 19 locally transmitted cases, 18 are in the community and one is from a workers' dormitory.
this is the highest number of community cases in singapore since june 3.  it is also the first time a dormitory case has been reported since june 8. the ministry added that 18 locally transmitted cases are linked to previous cases, with 13 already under quarantine and five detected through surveillance.
among the 10 new cases in the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster is a 17-year-old male student at ite college central, a household contact of another case confirmed on monday.
he developed a fever and cough on june 11 and went to a gp clinic, where he was given both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
his art test was negative for covid-19, but his pcr test came back positive.
his serology test — which looks for antibodies that indicate a past infection — is pending results.
[[nid:532789]]a 94-year-old singaporean man who regularly goes to telok blangah parcview active ageing care hub was also among the new cases added to the cluster.
the retiree developed a runny nose on june 6 and fever six days later on june 12 but did not seek medical attention.
as he is the family member of another case, he was quarantined on june 13.  he tested positive that same day.
a 21-year-old singaporean woman, who works as an it engineer at ibm in changi business park, is another new case.
a family member of two other covid-19 cases and a household contact of a third, she developed a runny nose and fever on june 12 but also did not seek medical attention.
she was quarantined on june 13 and reported her symptoms on the same day.
she also tested positive that day.
a 16-year-old singaporean male student at anglo chinese school (independent) is among the other community cases confirmed on monday.
a family member of an earlier case, he was asymptomatic and was detected when he was tested on june 12 while under quarantine.
there is one unlinked case on monday.
he is a male singaporean, 79, employed by ao servicepro as a cleaner at block 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4.  he developed symptoms on june 12 and sought treatment the next day.
he received his first vaccination dose on june 5. there are also six imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
three of the six are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the 25 new cases on monday take singapore's total tally to 62,301. the weekly total number of cases is 91 this week, down from 159 the previous week.
there are 46 active clusters, down from 48 on sunday.
as at monday night, 138 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 235 are recovering in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore shakthipriya saravanan may be only seven, but she is also pitching in to help the needy during the pandemic.
as part of a charity project by her school, lianhua primary, she has set up a "share and care" corner in her neighbourhood to provide free groceries to anyone who needs them.
it runs for a month till june 30. the corner was initially stocked with essentials such as rice, instant noodles and cooking oil bought with the girl's $400 savings and her parents' contributions.
the selection expanded to include bread and nutella as school volunteers and residents came forward to donate food.
beneficiaries of the corner have left thank-you notes for the primary 1 pupil.
it made shakthipriya's mother, mrs jaymaleni saravanan, 36, an executive at singapore first aid training centre, realise how "small, kind actions have huge effects".
says the girl: "i am thankful that my cause is helping many people.
"shakthipriya is among those stepping up to help those affected by the pandemic, including businesses affected by the dining-in ban.
to support food and beverage (f&b) social enterprises badly hit by the restrictions, non-profit organisation be kind sg compiled a list of them on facebook and encouraged people to patronise them.
founder of be kind sg, ms sherry soon, 40, felt it was especially important to highlight f&b businesses employing people with special needs during this time.
"social enterprises may have to let go of their staff if there is no business, and these staff may not be able to be re-employed as other employers may not give them a chance," she says.
other organisations, such as kb free soup for all and krsna's free meals, are providing free meals to those affected by the pandemic.
kb free soup for all is a soup kitchen initiative operating from june 7 to july 2.  it is organised by social enterprise m2 cafe and food-sharing group kampungbishan.
every weekday, the soup kitchen provides 100 takeaway packets of soup and rice from noon to 2pm at m2 cafe at the adelphi.
the cafe had been struggling to survive due to the fall in dine-in traffic.
after phase two (heightened alert) restrictions kicked in, owner toh kian beng, 41, decided to halt operations.
but his desire to help marginalised communities led him to adapt the restaurant space into a soup kitchen.
"apart from the hundreds of people who have been nourished by our warm soup and rice, i hope that more individuals can receive hope from our initiative," he says.
people packing food for the kb free soup for all soup kitchen, which provides 100 takeaway packets of soup and rice every weekday at the m2 cafe at the adelphi.
photos: courtesy of kb free soup for all
in a similar spirit, krsna's free meals launched a fund-raising campaign on give.
asia last month, after the number of migrant workers and locals who approached it doubled during this period.
the registered soup kitchen serves 850 to 1,000 breakfast meals and about 600 lunch meals daily at its premises in little india.
having raised $20,853 at the end of the campaign, which exceeded the goal by $853, it plans to source for more affordable ingredients to diversify its breakfast offerings and provide more fruit.
ms latha govindasamy, 52, a public relations executive for krsna's free meals, says: "we have made it a habit to introduce good food and fruit to build up the immunity of our beneficiaries, who usually do not make their health a priority. "
krsna's free meals serves 850 to 1,000 breakfast meals and about 600 lunch meals daily at its premises in little india.
photo: courtesy of krsna's free meals
meanwhile, from now until sunday, cafe arteastiq depatio at plaza singapura is giving free pizzas to students from low-income families.
in support of the straits times school pocket money fund (stspmf), it has teamed up with car enthusiast group sg convertible club to launch the "drop a good cause, drop a message, drop a pizza" initiative.
consumers can buy any pizza at half-price from the cafe to give to stspmf beneficiaries and the organisers will provide another pizza for free to the fund's beneficiaries.
ms tan bee heong, 55, general manager of the fund, thinks this is a "very welcome treat" for lowincome families, especially when many parents have lost their jobs due to covid-19.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
eastern pacific shipping (eps) has joined a study with nanyang technological university, singapore (ntu singapore) to explore the use of ammonia as an alternative marine fuel.
the study will examine the development of the ammonia supply chain as well as the development of bunkering protocols.
it is hoped that the results will aid the maritime industry as it transitions to lower carbon fuels.
as a bunkering fuel, ammonia has a range of technical challenges.
for the new study, eps will be lending its expertise in the loading, transporting, and discharging of gas cargoes, including ammonia.
eps currently manages one of maritime's largest independent gas carrier fleets with ten mid- to large-size gas carriers.
the company has another twelve mid-, large-, and very large gas carrier newbuilds set to be delivered between 2022 and 2023. cyril ducau, ceo of eps, said: "as a leading tonnage provider, eps has a responsibility to use whatever means necessary to lower our emissions today.
simultaneously we are committed to sharing our findings, best practices, and technical expertise to develop better solutions for tomorrow.
our participation in the study with ntu singapore supports our holistic strategy of testing a full spectrum of alternative marine fuels, including ammonia.
we look forward to the results and sharing them with the industry.
"eps recently announced that it was entering a partnership that will fund a maritime decarbonisation centre in singapore.
the company also signed a memorandum of understanding with oci and man energy solutions to develop methanol and ammonia as marine fuels.
your email address will not be published.
required fields are marked *commentname * email * website   subscribe now for free daily news updates.
does home depot need to lease containers to fill the ship?.
.
.
i think you maybe missed my point!.
.
.
we have seen this response when ships in trouble have tried.
.
.
manning levels?
could we see the seafarers who are supposed.
.
.
agreed.
article was very disappointing and brings to light h. .
.
are the days of the 25-year lifecycle of a ship over?total voters: 11rt @companydjibouti: denmark versus finland last saturday needs to be a wake-up call for us all https://t.
co/gz9yetbrtu via @splash_247rt @lngtaro: の,はに→にチャンス!のカタールlngはカウントされていないなので,にについてもにあたりはにないのでは?rt @hpwl4: japanese yards offer last available slots as china builds up its naval might https://t.
co/ufsedj7tpp via @splash_247rt @samchambers: the legal status of deflagged ships and their crews onboard @hratsea @shipbrief https://t.
co/imjh7l0o4vrt @samchambers: 'the lng critics, often guided by academics, leaning on outdated theoretical data, seem to dismiss lng in isolation withou.
.
.
don't have an account?
ever since ms sarah bagharib called the peoples' association (pa) out for using her wedding photographs without her permission in its hari raya aidilfitri display at an hdb estate in tiong bahru, it has generated a firestorm of debate.
this alongside a number of disturbing videos that have surfaced, depicting blatantly racist behaviour has led a number of politicians from both the peoples' action party (pap) front and the opposition fronts to opine.
perhaps bowing to public pressure, the pa has issued an apology of sorts to ms sarah.
i say "an apology of sorts" because while the word "apologise" has been used, it is an apology that is loaded with caveats and reservations.
i accept that neither the pa nor the third-party vendor may have been intentionally racist — this begs the question: can something be racist without a racist intent?this is a nuanced question without a simple answer.
it is however important to acknowledge that when managing people's emotions and feelings, there is never a simple answer and we must not let our desire to be efficient cloud our empathy.
first things first, i think it is probably fair to say that singapore is systemically set up to cater for the majority chinese race.
from advertisements on tv to speaking only chinese in certain restaurants, the subtext is that the minorities must adapt.
one might say this makes logical sense but i would urge you to pause there.
many of our minority fellow citizens are not new immigrants.
they like us (the majority race) were born and bred here, the descendants of immigrants.
for some of our malay brothers and sisters, they have been geographically here way before we were!secondly, while all of these policies that have placed efficiency above all else may not have had a racist intention, it nevertheless could result in racism.
let me give you an example.
on every administration form ranging from local job applications to joining a gym, they ask what race you are.
when the practice started, it may have just been a question of simple efficiency.
listing your race upfront makes it easy to gather data etc.
but the shadow of this approach is that it gives an opportunity for those who may harbour racist intentions to exclude races they do not like.
so, this is an example of non-racist intentions giving birth to racist effects.
by simply focussing on intent, we are missing the forest for the trees.
this isn't a blame game — it is about the acknowledgement that some practices have had racist effects (regardless of intent) and we must do better because the damage is real!the pa has bristled at accusations that it could be racist, preferring to hide behind the term "culturally insensitive".
but calling a spade a spade, isn't cultural insensitivity a part of racism, albeit on a lower scale?
"these are accusations we reject.
while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments".
from the pa's perspective, they are part of a structure that is very much dominated and run in a way that caters systematically to the benefit of the majority chinese race.
while they run events that ostensibly celebrate minority culture, it seems to be done more as a box-ticking exercise.
in other words, it is done on autopilot without much thought.
this is the crux of the issue with the usage of ms sarah's photographs.
it was lazy because the pa has fallen into the trap of stereotyping and generalising minorities.
hari raya equals malay.
malay costume equals hari raya.
it may not be intentional racism, but it still has racist effects.
this is especially so if the lived experience of the minorities in singapore is one where this sorts of casual and careless racism plague their daily existence.
so, is it really right for the pa to dismiss this as an "isolated incident"?
is it also not itself making an accusation that ms sarah is stoking sentiments when it does not want to be accused of being racist?
pot calling kettle black!this is the terminology that can have a gaslighting effect.
many have also dismissed the video of mr dave parkash being chastised by a senior lecturer from ngee ann polytechnic as an "isolated incident".
but is it really?
people all over social media have shared their own experiences of being minorities in singapore and it is clearly not "an isolated incident".
is highlighting incidences of racism, however inadvertently "stoking emotions or sentiments"?
is the pa saying that minorities should just suck it up?while the pa may not have made this exact mistake before, can it categorically say that it has not been guilty of racial stereotype and other incidences of racist effects without intent?for the pa to call it simply an "oversight" is just not good enough.
it isn't an oversight.
it is a lack of regard and that is what they should be apologising for.
it is fine to state that it had not intended to be racist but despite that, the lack of care did result in a racist outcome.
apologise for the outcome and pledge to do better.
end of story.
the pa has claimed that it finds ms sarah's public call for messages or suggestions that they would like to have relayed to the organisation in their meeting an "odd" one.
i appreciate the pa's point of view if it misguidedly views this as an "isolated incident".
but you see, if you truly listen to the lived experience of minorities, this is not at all an isolated incident.
minorities do not often have a platform because we don't allow them one.
every time something is raised, we silence them with the hammer of "this is an isolated incident".
is it really that surprising that ms sarah is trying to give voice to the many minorities who have not been given a voice?yes it "has gone far beyond the radin mas incident" but it needs to and the pa is a good start.
after all, isn't it called the peoples' association?
if it cannot represent the people, then maybe it is obsolete.
let's not miss a golden opportunity to have a much-needed discussion.
to simply issue a surface apology without deep reflection hoping that the matter will die down is just not good enough because this issue isn't just about the use of photographs without permission.
it is a reflection of our society's ignorance.
if we accept the pa's apology as it stands, we are saying that it is ok for the majority race to remain ignorant.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
democratic unity is welcome against authoritarian might.
that doesn't mean signing up to everything on the us agendalast modified on tue 15 jun 2021 22.
46 edtit is 50 years next month since henry kissinger embarked on the secret mission to beijing that led to a rapprochement: "it is the conviction of president nixon that a strong and developing people's republic of china poses no threat to any essential us interest," the national security adviser assured leaders there.
half a century on, the thaw is over.
the thread running through joe biden's first foreign trip as president is the need for democratic alliances against growing authoritarian might, and though attention now turns to his meeting with vladimir putin on wednesday, the administration's real focus has been on china.
while beijing's record on the pandemic, trade, human rights and other specific areas has rightly raised deep concern internationally, the underlying issue is its rise, and the decline of us power.
"the us is ill and very ill indeed," foreign ministry spokesman zhao lijian declared in beijing on tuesday.
washington's waning power was exemplified by donald trump, with his erratic pronouncements and conduct, veneration of autocrats and contempt for allies.
yet if mr biden has largely defined himself in opposition to his predecessor, he often sounds strikingly similar on china.
his approach too is shaped by domestic politics: talking tough on beijing offers some prospect of political unity in a deeply divided country, should help to ward off republican attacks on that front, and recognises that the business world is shifting.
the us knows it must work with china on the climate crisis – with the critical cop26 talks due this autumn – and says it does not want a cold war.
mr biden has shunned his predecessor's racism.
but the overall hawkish tone struck on china, including briefings around the "lab leak" pandemic theory, has a cold war feel and broader repercussions – with people of east asian descent, who have nothing to do with decisions in beijing, facing hostility and attacks.
in europe, as elsewhere, mr biden has an opportunity created by the backlash against chinese policies and "wolf warrior" diplomacy.
there are signs that china's push for influence is faltering: the european parliament froze an investment deal following tit-for-tat sanctions over beijing's treatment of the uyghurs; lithuania quit the "17+1" mechanism for dialogue with central and eastern europe last month; and plans for a chinese university campus in hungary are on hold.
nato leaders this week declared china a security risk, "present[ing] systemic challenges to the rules-based international order".
but the ongoing differences on handling beijing are evident.
emmanuel macron was swift to add that "china has little to do with the north atlantic" and that it was important "we don't bias our relationship".
similarly, angela merkel reportedly expressed concern that the g7 is "not about being against something, but for something".
strategic instincts as well as commercial interests work against buying into the us agenda wholesale.
many anticipate that a new german chancellor will turn the country's china policy in a more critical direction.
but while the us is right that democratic countries must pull together on important issues, decisions cannot and should not be by american diktat.
european countries are right to be wary of dancing to the us tune – not least because they wonder what kind of leader could be in charge four years from now.
as mr biden has recognised, the us-china competition will be shaped in large part by the performance of the us: how it looks at home, as well as whether projects such as the g7 infrastructure initiative materialise in any significant way.
(the g7's failure to reach a better deal on vaccine-sharing does not bode well. )
while favourable perceptions of the us and confidence in its president soared after he took office, only 17% of those surveyed in 12 countries saw american democracy as a good example for other countries to follow.
america is back, we were told this week.
but we are in a multilateral world now, and its position will depend not only on pursuing economic and technical superiority, but healing its politics and society too.
heart conditions associated with the covid-19 mrna vaccines are extremely rare and it remains unclear if the vaccines are responsible for them, experts told the straits times after a handful of cases raised some concerns.
six individuals here were reported to have suffered myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart) after getting an mrna vaccine, among whom four are men younger than 30. the other two are a man and a woman both aged above 40. the health sciences authority (hsa) said most of the cases occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine, and that all have recovered or been discharged from hospital.
the united states and israel two major users of the mrna vaccines have also reported a slightly increased risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men after the second dose of mrna vaccination.
but there is no need to be overly concerned as these events are rare, experts said.
professor ooi eng eong, an expert on emerging infectious diseases at duke-nus medical school, said it also remains unclear if it is indeed mrna vaccines causing these adverse events and how vaccination could have resulted in them.
as at june 7, more than 1,888,000 people in singapore have received both doses of mrna vaccines by either pfizer-biontech or moderna.
an article last friday by the american academy of paediatrics cited a rate of 16 cases of myocarditis/pericarditis for every one million second doses in people aged 16 to 39. such inflammation of the heart was also reported in some covid-19 patients last year, most likely the result of an overactive immune system giving rise to the inflammation.
vaccine maker moderna issued a statement last friday stating it is aware of reports of such cases after people took its vaccine, but added that it has not established a causal association with its vaccine after carefully reviewing the available safety data to date.
as mrna vaccines lead to a similar but milder immune response, they could also give rise to inflammation, said prof ooi.
"but these cases, if indeed caused by the vaccine, will be much fewer compared with covid-19-induced heart inflammation ones.
"it is also important to note that the occurrence of some rare events is natural for any vaccine, especially when large numbers have been vaccinated, he stressed.
"no other vaccine has come under the scrutiny as covid-19 vaccines.
in about six months, over 1.
5 billion people have been vaccinated under close observation," added prof ooi.
he said it is unclear why young men may be more susceptible, and that it is difficult to conduct the necessary studies to determine a correlation.
"nonetheless, we can expect more detailed description of what happens to these cases in the coming months, from those that have been treated in the us and israel.
the picture may become clearer then.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
singapore: the covid-19 multi-ministry task force is "evaluating the timing and scope" of the next stage of singapore's reopening, finance minister lawrence wong said in a facebook post on wednesday (jun 16).
"we are now at stage 1 of our reopening.
stage 2 is scheduled next monday.
unfortunately we now have new cases breaking out and a major new cluster in bukit merah," said mr wong, who co-chairs the task force.
"given these developments, we are evaluating the timing and scope of the next stage of reopening.
the mtf is studying the situation carefully with public health experts and will provide further updates soon.
"as of tuesday, thebukit merah view market and food centrecovid-19 cluster consisted of 25 cases.
in a video accompanying his facebook post, mr wong said that the new covid-19 cases in bukit merah are "breaking out not only in the market and the hawker centre, but also, all around the vicinity".
"and day by day, we are seeing the number of unlinked cases, the cryptic cases in the community are likely to be rising too," he said.
the market, which was slated to reopen on wednesday after being closed since sunday, will now be shut for two weeks until jun 26. explaining the decision on tuesday, the ministry of health (moh) said that the detection of more cases among employees at the market and their close contacts suggests there is "ongoing spread with wider transmission".
all staff and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 were placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine.
all 85 tenants and workers of the neighbouring 116 bukit merah view have also been tested for covid-19, while free covid-19 testing has been extended to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and jun 12. stallholders atredhill market and food centre, which is a short walk away from bukit merah view market and food centre, will undergo mandatory swab tests after a covid-19 case recently visited the market.
"i know this is a difficult time for everyone," mr wong said.
"i want to assure all of you that we are doing our very best to control the infection  and we want to ensure that we do not have another flare-up before we reach sufficiently high levels of vaccination in our community.
"dining-in at food and beverage outlets is currently banned as part of phase 3 (heightened alert) and was scheduled to resume onjun 21, provided the covid-19 situation remained under control.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore, june 15 (reuters) singapore's central bank said on tuesday it has reprimanded the local businesses of insurers aia, prudential and aviva for breaching requirements related to risk management and supervisors' pay.
the monetary authority of singapore (mas) said its investigations found numerous instances where remuneration was paid to supervisors over sales of investment products and life policies, violating its regulations.
a mas reprimand is issued when there are failures in a financial institution that may pose potential risks to its business, market participants and investors.
those reprimanded were aia financial advisers private limited, prudential assurance company singapore, aviva ltd and aviva financial advisers pte ltd.  the companies did not immediately respond to separate requests for comment.
the mas has dealt firmly with these financial institutions "to send a clear message to the industry on the importance of upholding high ethical standards," ho hern shin, deputy managing director, financial supervision, said in a statement.
(reporting by chen lin; editing by martin petty) polestar, the premium electric vehicle maker owned by china's geely and volvo cars, will build its polestar 3 electric suv at volvo's u. s.  plant in south carolina starting in the second half of 2022, the brand's chief executive said.
the volvo plant in ridgeville, south carolina, near charleston, currently builds the volvo s60 sedan and will add the volvo xc90 suv in 2022, polestar said on wednesday.
investor groups have asked the u. s.  securities and exchange commission for more corporate disclosures on climate change and other environmental, social and governance (esg) issues while business interests have pushed back, a reuters review of correspondence published by the regulator shows.
the deadline for the public to submit comments to the sec on the topic expired on monday.
thousands of investors and advocates, from large asset managers to individual investors,  as well as companies and trade groups made submissions, which were accessible on the sec website.
have you considered how you'll withdraw your retirement income?
these simple mistakes could cost you thousands of dollars.
top news and what to watch in the markets on wednesday, june 16, 2021. lincoln is planning to introduce an all-electric vehicle lineup by 2030, with a new fully electric car scheduled for next year.
members of the media are invited to attend an important infrastructure announcement regarding covid-19 response and active transportation for central prince edward island with wayne easter, member of parliament for malpeque, on behalf of the honourable catherine mckenna, minister of infrastructure and communities, and the honourable dennis king, premier of prince edward island.
have you saved $500,000 for retirement—and are you unsure about how to start your estate plan?
get the investor's guide to estate planning now.
québec produces more strawberries than any other canadian province.
strawberries are delicate and difficult to keep fresh.
in response to this challenge, monique lacroix, a professor at the institut national de la recherche scientifique (inrs), and her team have developed a packaging film that can keep strawberries fresh for up to 12 days.
the team's findings on how this film protects against mould and certain pathogenic bacteria have been published in food hydrocolloids.
today, clearestate, a digital-first estate settlement platform for north american executors, announced its platform launch into the us in partnership with california-based funeral home operator anthem partners.
the estate settlement fintech also announced c$2.
5m in seed extension funding to support product innovation and an expanded further rollout across the united states and canada.
the honourable mary ng, minister of small business, export promotion and international trade, will deliver a keynote address and moderate a panel at the diversio and rosenzweig & company "gender and racial equality in the c-suite: an international dialogue" event.
cut your monthly payment while rates are low.
free quotes.
wont affect your credit.
calculate new payment.
(1.
97% apr)members of the media are invited to 3 separate activities related to the centre block rehabilitation project.
the canadian mental health association (cmha) today welcomes a donation of more than $500,000 made by shoppers drug mart inc on behalf of the company and its associate owners.
the donation will enhance and expand cmha's cross-canada network of community-based mental health and well-being learning centres – often called "recovery colleges. "
the centres are welcoming spaces that help all people, including women, families and vulnerable groups, access the support they need in an environment that issubway® canada is hosting its first-ever virtual concert with canadian diamond/multi-platinum selling and juno award winning dance music duo loud luxury on june 23rd to raise awareness for the issue of child hunger experienced throughout the summer months.
the concert is in support of never miss lunchtm, an initiative from subway® canada committed to providing children with access to the food they need so they can reach their full potential.
on the day of the concert, $1 from every footlong purchthis small company behind it is sparking a potential 20,300% market surge.
click here for details.
i-80 gold corp.  (tsx: iau) (otc: iaucf) ("i-80", or the "company") is pleased to announce that rehabilitation of underground drill bays is completed and underground drilling has commenced at the company's granite creek ("granite creek" or "the property") property located in humbolt county, nevada.
the company's getchell property has been renamed granite creek to avoid confusion with the getchell open pit located at the nearby turquoise ridge mine property.
the jcvi plans to recommend against vaccinating under-18s until more data is gathered on the risks to young people, but ministers have not yet received advice on the mattersterling scored in sunday's 1-0 win over croatia as england began the euros with a victory for the first time in nine attempts.
the manchester city forward, who was at the weekend awarded an mbe for his services to racial equality in sport, said meditation helped him feel relaxed.
"i'm doing a little bit of meds," sterling told british media.
wall street legend whitney tilson says there's a huge new tech trend coming – and he's giving away his top pick for free right here.
deceased is said to have been killed while walking in the mountains near liptovska luznathe independent's political commentators john rentoul and andrew grice will be joined by two guest speakers, david gauke and the rt hon lord adonis, to discuss brexit five years onfinding the 'perfect' summer dress is no mean feat.
millionaire wall street legend urges americans get out of cash before april 27th.
it was a great joy this week to witness the portuguese footballer not so much endorse a product, as contribute to wiping $4bn off its market valuea malaysian court wednesday overturned an inquest verdict of "misadventure" in the death of a french-irish teen who vanished in the jungle, replacing it with an "open" ruling in a victory for her family.
mcdonald's had also "sweeten the experience" by offering the bts meal "at a special price of s$8.
90", which is said to be 10% off the usual delivery price.
seoul: south korean authorities are failing to properly tackle the country's widespread digital sex crimes against women, which have a devastating impact on victims, a human rights watch (hrw) report said on wednesday (jun 16).
south korea is the world's 12th largest economy and a leading technological power, but remains a male-dominated society with a poor record on women's rights.
digital sex crimes, or the sharing of intimate pictures or video without permission, are a massive problem in the country, where "molka" or spycam videos secretly filmed in public places are common, as is "revenge porn" private sex videos filmed or shared non-consensually by disgruntled exes.
south korean officials "in the criminal legal system most of whom are men often seem to simply not understand, or not accept, that these are very serious crimes", said hrw's heather barr, the report author.
in 2019, almost 45 per cent of sexual digital crime cases were dropped by the country's prosecution, compared with 19 per cent of robbery cases and 27.
7 per cent of homicides, the report said.
even when there were convictions, it found almost 80 per cent of perpetrators received just "a suspended sentence, a fine, or a combination of the two" last year.
"digital sex crimes have become so common, and so feared .
.
.
they are affecting the quality of life of all women and girls," barr said.
spycams have become so prevalent that female police officers now regularly inspect public toilets, with women telling hrw they avoided using the amenities altogether.
one woman who spoke to barr was given a clock by a male employer, which she put in her bedroom only later finding out the device had been streaming footage to him for over a month.
victims often feel deep shame and are socially ostracised, and an "alarming number" told hrw they had contemplated suicide.
the report comes as an anti-feminist backlash grows in south korea, with companies accused of endorsing "radical feminism" being boycotted by some men.
barr said "widely accepted harmful views" about women and girls were the root cause of the phenomenon.
the government has "not sent a clear and forceful message that women and men are equal," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
shaffiq alkhatibthe straits timesjun 15, 2021a man who had an "intimate relationship" with a woman was so unhappy she wanted to sever ties with him that he threatened to kill her, her mother and her boyfriend.
gabriel heng jing heng also threatened to burn down the victim's home.
he relentlessly stalked the 24-year-old woman, who was not his girlfriend, from july 2018 to september 2019. on tuesday (june 15), the 26-year-old singaporean was sentenced to 18 months' jail and a fine of $3,000 after pleading guilty to three counts of criminal intimidation.
he also admitted to one count each of assault, harassment and mischief.
the woman cannot be named due to a gag order to protect her identity.
heng got to know her in 2016 and they grew close.
but she decided to end their friendship in december 2017 because she felt he was "very possessive".
despite this, he frequently demanded to meet her and used vulgarities as well as threats when she refused.
the woman started ignoring his text messages and calls from july 27, 2018, but this did little to stop his attempts to contact her.
in just a few days, she received more than 100 missed calls from him.
on july 29, he sent her a text message, threatening to burn down her home and slash her mother if she refused to see him later that day.
the victim later blocked his mobile phone number on whatsapp and telegram.
in august, she moved out and sought shelter at a relative's home until january 2019. undeterred, heng continued trying to contact the woman by using another phone number.
he sent her multiple threatening messages from august 2018 to july 2019, including a message on july 25, in which he threatened to kill her, her mother and her boyfriend.
heng was arrested and charged in court two days later after the woman alerted the police.
he was ordered to stop contacting her as part of his bail conditions.
two months later, while out on bail, he breached the conditions by continuing to text her.
separately, heng threatened to burn down his grandmother's home in october 2019 after a dispute, despite the 73-year-old woman acting as his bailor.
she discharged herself from the responsibility soon after.
in an unrelated case, heng assaulted a valet driver in july 2019.  he also kicked and dented another man's car in 2020. in mitigation, heng's lawyers, mr josephus tan and mr cory wong from invictus law corporation, said their client has a history of conditions, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and is remorseful.
heng is now out on bail of $15,000 and must surrender himself at the state courts on july 13 to begin serving his jail term.
get a copy of the straits times or go to straitstimes.
com for more stories.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
jerusalem: israel's fledgling new government faced an early test tuesday (jun 15) as jewish ultranationalists prepared to march into annexed east jerusalem, stoking tensions the un has warned threaten a fragile gaza ceasefire.
rallies by far-right jewish groups in arab neighbourhoods have raised tensions in recent months, prompting a police intervention in the flashpoint al-aqsa mosque compound that triggered the deadliest flare-up of israeli-palestinian violence since 2014. the so-called march of the flags, which celebrates the anniversary of israel's 1967 occupation of the city's eastern sector, was originally scheduled for last thursday but was delayed due to israeli police opposition to the route and warnings from gaza's islamist rulers hamas.
the former government of veteran premier benjamin netanyahu put off the march until tuesday, a decision confirmed late monday by the incoming government of prime minister naftali bennett.
"the right to demonstrate is a right in all democracies," said internal security minister omer bar-lev.
"the police is ready and we will do everything in our power to preserve the delicate thread of coexistence.
"organisers consulted police on the best route for the march that begins at 1430 gmt to avoid friction with arab residents, the government said.
but palestinian prime minister mohammad shtayyeh condemned it as a provocation.
"we warn of the dangerous repercussions that may result from the occupying power's intention to allow extremist israeli settlers to carry out the flag march in occupied jerusalem tomorrow," shtayyeh tweeted in english.
he said it was "a provocation and aggression against our people, jerusalem and its sanctities that must end".
the new israeli premier is himself a jewish nationalist but the coalition he leads also includes centrist and left-wing parties and, for the first time in the country's history, an arab party.
the support of the four lawmakers of the islamic conservative raam party was vital to the wafer-thin majority that the government won in a historic confidence vote that unseated netanyahu on sunday.
"very fragile"un middle east peace envoy tor wennesland urged all sides to behave responsibly to avoid damage to a hard-won may 21 ceasefire that ended 11 days of heavy fighting in and around gaza.
"tensions are rising again in jerusalem at a very fragile & sensitive security & political time, when un & egypt are actively engaged in solidifying the ceasefire," wennesland said.
"urge all relevant parties to act responsibly & avoid any provocations that could lead to another round of confrontation.
"the us embassy called on its staff to avoid entering the walled old city in the heart of east jerusalem because of the march and "possible counter-demonstrations".
israel's annexation of east jerusalem since the six-day war of 1967 is not recognised by most of the international community which says the city's final status should be a matter of negotiation between the two sides.
the palestinians claim the city's eastern sector as the capital of their future state.
hamas warningthe iconic al-aqsa mosque compound in the heart of the old city is islam's third holiest site and a national symbol for all palestinians regardless of religion.
it is also judaism's holiest site but by longstanding convention jews are not allowed to pray inside the compound and visits by israeli jewish politicians often trigger disturbances.
when the march was originally announced for last week, senior hamas official khalil hayya warned it could spark a return to violence like that of may 10-21.
"we warn the occupation (israel) against letting the march approach east jerusalem and al-aqsa mosque compound," hayya said.
"we hope the message is clear so that thursday doesn't become (a new) may 10.
"last month's conflict started after hamas issued a deadline for israel to remove its security forces from flashpoint areas of east jerusalem, and then fired a salvo of rockets at israel when the ultimatum went unheeded.
israeli strikes on the gaza strip between may 10 to may 21 killed 260 palestinians including some fighters, the gaza authorities said.
in israel, 13 people were killed, including a soldier, by rockets fired from gaza, the israeli police and army said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
washington : the chinese scientist at the centre of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialised lab in wuhan has denied that her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist.
"us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the theory has gained increasing traction recently, fuelled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the south-western chinese province of yunnan.
dr shi, 57, is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" (gof) experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017, dr shi and her colleagues published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses.
.
.
in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells".
but in an e-mail to the paper, dr shi said her experiments differed from gof experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
afpget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
paris (reuters) the delta variant of the covid-19 virus, first found in india which experts estimate to be more infectious than other variants currently represents 2 per cent to 4 per cent of confirmed covid-19 cases in france, said french health minister olivier veran on tuesday (june 15).
mr veran said this meant france was registering between 50 and 150 cases a day of the covid-19 delta variant, which highlighted the importance of sanitary protocol measures and vaccinations to keep the virus at bay.
"we are in the process of crushing the virus and crushing the pandemic, and we must in no way let the variant get the upper hand so that it leads to another wave of the pandemic," mr veran told reporters at a paris vaccination centre.
on monday, british prime minister boris johnson delayed his plans to lift most remaining covid-19 restrictions by a month, citing the dangers posted by the covid-19 delta variant.
france's covid-19 numbers have steadily gone down over the last two months after the country eased its third national lockdown.
france has more than 110,400 covid-19 deaths, the ninth-highest covid-19 death toll in the world.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur: a malaysian court will rule wednesday (jun 16) on a challenge by the family of a french-irish teenager over an inquest verdict that she died by misadventure after vanishing in the jungle.
the body of nora quoirin, a 15-year-old with learning difficulties, was discovered after a huge hunt through the rainforest following her disappearance from a resort outside kuala lumpur in 2019. in january, a coroner handed down a ruling of misadventure, indicating her death during the family holiday was accidental rather than a crime, and said no one else was involved.
but her london-based parents, who have dismissed authorities' claims their daughter wandered into the jungle alone at night, and believe she was abducted, said they were "utterly disappointed" by the verdict.
they lodged a challenge and are seeking to have the ruling revised to an open verdict suggesting there are still questions to be answered about the case.
judge azizul azmi adnan is expected to hand down his ruling at 5pm at the high court in seremban, outside kuala lumpur, via video-link because of coronavirus curbs.
presenting the family's case at a hearing last week, lawyer louise azmi said an open verdict would be "appropriate".
"the last thing that (nora) would do is to walk away from the security of her parents," she said.
malaysian police have stuck to their version of events that the teenager clambered out of a window of the family's holiday chalet and wandered off, and insist there was no sign of foul play.
but her mother, meabh, has said she believes someone could have placed her body in the spot where it was found, not far from the resort.
the teenager disappeared a day after her family checked in to the dusun resort, triggering a 10-day hunt involving hundreds of rescuers, helicopters and sniffer dogs.
an autopsy concluded she likely died of starvation and internal bleeding.
the coroner said the teenager had been left disoriented by the long journey from britain to malaysia, likely leading her to wander off, and that there was no sign she was murdered or sexually assaulted.
the teen had a condition known as holoprosencephaly, where the brain fails to develop normally.
she had limited verbal communication and could only write a few words.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
image from google mapsit was reported in the media today (14 jun) that a new covid-19 cluster has been formed at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
mandatory testing has started for all the stallholders at the hawker centre and market.
a concerned bukit merah resident, mdm lim, 60, who visited the market yesterday (13 jun) told the media, "i'm not worried about getting covid-19.
i feel fine, i don't have any symptoms, but testing would give me some assurance because my job requires me to visit clients.
"tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira said, "there are many elderly living in the area, and their children have also written to me as they are worried.
""i have asked them to continue monitoring their health closely and see a doctor immediately if unwell, and minimise physical interactions," she added.
they are also offered free testing by moh, she said.
all staff and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 have already been quarantined and will be swabbed.
the cluster now has six cases, after four cases were linked to it yesterday.
moh said, "our epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
"the four new cases comprise a 50-year-old man who is a conservancy worker, a 72-year-old man who works at a sundry shop, a 67-year-old woman who works as a food stall vendor, and a 65-year-old male food stall vendor.
all four are close contacts of a 74-year-old man who also works at a sundry store in the market.
earlier, an 82-year-old singaporean elderly woman who works at the market has already been detected with covid-19.
affected self-employed individuals can tap moh's quarantine order allowance scheme, which provides a $100 per day assistance to them.
in any case, it is unfortunate to see numerous elderly still working in their twilight years to support themselves.
some elderly has resorted to seeking the commissioner for the maintenance of parents (cmp) to force their children to pay up so that they can get by.
the commissioner for the maintenance of parents (cmp), mr khoo oon soo, was reported to have attended to 98 seniors last year – down from 143 the year before and almost a third of the 286 in 2011. among those who sought the commissioner's help last year was a 68-year-old man.
while he had cpf savings and silver support payouts, among other things, it was insufficient for him to survive in singapore with the cost of living inching up.
the commissioner located his son, who said his father did not support him when he was young.
still, the son decided to give his father $200 a month and did not resent his father for his past failings.
a ministry of social and family development (msf) spokesman was quoted by straits times saying that the drop in numbers of elders seeking help is due to more of the younger seniors are "financially able" and better prepared for retirement through the use of their central provident fund and personal savings.
but according to what toc understands in some cases, the children broke ties with the parents after being forced to pay a token sum due to the poor financial standing of the children.
furthermore, according to a study from the lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp), an older singaporean above 65 years old would need $1,379 a month in 2018 to meet his or her basic needs.
in december 2018, there were about 268,000 cpf members aged 65 and above who received retirement payouts from either the cpf life or retirement sum scheme.
according to data as of june 2020, there were 229,400 residents who are aged 65-69.  the number of cpf members who received payouts in dec 2018, seems to be rather low in comparison.
what about the other 113,400 residents who are not receiving payouts?
if they are not receiving any, is it because their cpf has been exhausted?similarly there were 261,000 residents aged 70-79,  however, there were only 130,000 who are receiving cpf payouts.
even with the payouts, one will find it hard to meet the sum of $1,379 for their basic needs.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: temperatures ranging from 23 to 27 degrees celsius and ambient humidity of 50 to 60 per cent are typically the conditions needed to air-cool a data centre housing powerful computers and rows of servers.
but to maintain a controlled environment like that requires plenty of energy, even more so if the data centre is set in a tropical location like singapore.
to develop novel and more energy-efficient ways of cooling data centres in the tropics, a new s$23 million research programme was announced by the national university of singapore (nus) and the nanyang technological university (ntu) on wednesday (jun 16).
as part of that, a testbed facility with "state-of-the-art" equipment will be set up at the nus kent ridge campus and will be up and running by october.
the sustainable tropical data centre testbed (stdct), as it is called, will "promote the co-creation and demonstration of advanced cooling technologies", the universities said in a joint press release.
the programme is jointly funded by the national research foundation singapore (nrf), a department under the prime minister's office, and facebook, which is the anchor industry partner.
research at the stdct will be co-led by researchers from the nus, ntu and industry partners such as keppel data centres, with support from the relevant government agencies.
"companies will share their needs and requirements with the research community to ideate and innovate the solutions," the press release said.
one area that researchers are examining is a heat sink design with both air and liquid modes of cooling in a single integrated piece that eliminates the connectors and ducts.
led by nus associate professor lee poh seng, who is also the programme director at stdct, this "direct chip hybrid cooling" idea can be an alternative air-cooling solution during water-loop maintenance to cut down server downtime.
another, led by ntu's associate professor tan rui, will test the possibility of air-cooling data centres at higher temperatures and relative humidity levels to reduce energy consumption yet ensuring the performance of the it equipment.
when successfully developed and tested, a combination of the new cooling technologies being studied at the stdct could reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by "up to 25 per cent", compared with data centres that are traditionally air-cooled.
an industry-wide adoption across the entire tropical region can also potentially cut the industry's energy usage by "at least 40 per cent", the press release said.
"the demonstration and validation of innovative cooling technologies at the testbed facility can greatly mitigate the operational and financial risks of adopting these solutions," the universities said.
"this will accelerate adoption, as well as enhance the sustainability of the data centre industry in singapore and the wider tropical region.
"in the longer term, the stdct hopes to recommend operating guidelines and set new standards based on proven findings from its new technologies to enable greener data centres.
meanwhile, the facility itself will feature energy-efficient cooling solutions, such as the statepoint liquid cooling system developed by nortek air solutions and facebook that helps data centres to operate more efficiently in tropical locations.
greening data centresthe rise of the digital economy has led to growing demand for data centres but the booming industry's huge energy needs are also raising concerns.
the international energy agency estimates that the sector currently uses around 1 per cent of the world's electricity.
this figure could hit double-digits by 2030, making related emissions a problem.
in singapore, data centres accounted for 7 per cent of the country's total electricity consumption last year.
this is projected to reach 12 per cent by 2030, the universities' press release said.
with the industry being an "intensive" user of electricity and water, a "temporary pause" has since been imposed on the building of new data centres as local authorities mull a balance between environmental sustainability and supporting business needs.
the government has said it is in the midst of concluding its review and intends to share its plans with the industry later this year.
nrf's chief executive low teck seng said the stdct will help to accelerate the development and test-bedding of innovative and sustainable solutions for data centres towards commercial deployment.
it will also support singapore's journey towards becoming a low-emissions economy as part of the foundation's energy grid 2.
0 programme, he added.
the infocomm media development authority (imda), which is supporting the research programme, said it will work closely with the industry to bring about more energy-efficient data centres and encourage the adoption of best-in-class technologies, solutions and standards.
"this will enable us to grow our data centre ecosystem sustainably and further entrench singapore as one of the world's leading data centre hubs," said cluster director for infrastructure planning and facilitation yeo tiong yeow.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all stallholders at the redhill market and food centre will need to undergo mandatory covid-19 tests after an infected person was found to have visited it.
announcing this on tuesday (june 15), radin mas mp melvin yong said it was a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of those working and visiting the neighbourhood centre, which is usually busy.
in a facebook post, mr yong said the tests will be carried out on tuesday and wednesday at a temporary testing centre that had been set up at block 84a redhill lane.
mr yong added that he and the chairman of the bukit merah shop owners and hawkers association had visited the testing centre earlier on tuesday afternoon to check on the testing process and to update stallholders on the latest situation.
he said that most stallholders had completed their tests by midday and told him that the process was painless and smooth.
mr yong added: "they agree that getting tested is the responsible thing to do, so that everyone can have peace of mind when coming to the market and food centre.
"let's continue to support our hawkers and market stallholders during this difficult time.
"the ministry of health (moh) had said on monday evening that redhill market and food centre had been visited by an infected individual on mornings between june 8 and 10. the testing operation at redhill market and food centre comes after mandatory covid-19 testing commenced for 85 stallholders at the nearby bukit merah view market and hawker centre on monday after a new cluster of cases was detected by moh last week.
there were 16 confirmed cases linked to the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster as at monday.
redhill market and food centre and bukit merah view market and hawker centre are about a ten-minute walk from each other.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia's royal rulers have begun arriving at the national palace for a special meeting with the king on wednesday (june 16) to discuss the country's covid-19 crisis.
over the last week, sultan abdullah ahmad shah had granted audiences to political party leaders across the divide to get their views on the government's handling of the outbreak during the ongoing state of emergency, which will expire in six weeks.
the king had met 18 political leaders face to face as well as in virtual sessions from june 9, said a statement issued by the comptroller of the royal household, datuk indera ahmad fadil shamsuddin, on tuesday.
aside from meeting political leaders, the king also granted an audience to the chairman of the special independent committee on the emergency, tun arifin zakaria, at istana negara on tuesday, it said.
experts from various government agencies are scheduled to present briefings on matters related to health, security, politics and the economy during wednesday's meeting at 2.
30pm, which will be the second by the malay rulers to discuss the pandemic, after one was held in october last year.
the state of emergency was declared amid a spike in covid-19 cases in january.
there have been calls for the emergency to be lifted due to the worsening covid-19 health crisis.
the nation is currently under another lockdown after record highs in covid-19 cases and deaths were reported in recent weeks.
last wednesday, opposition leader anwar ibrahim said he had pleaded with the constitutional monarch not to extend the state of emergency, as the move has not helped poorer malaysians.
opposition democratic action party secretary-general lim guan eng, whose party has the most number of mps, told reporters after his audience that the discussion with the king revolved around financial assistance for the people to see them through the outbreak.
as a potential solution to malaysia's crisis, the country's longest-serving premier mahathir mohamad mooted the revival of a council that governed the nation after its deadly may 13, 1969, race riots in his audience with the king last thursday.
dr mahathir claimed the national operations council (mageran), which was in charge for two years during the last national emergency until 1971, allowed malaysia's second prime minister, tun abdul razak hussein, to "solve political problems at the time" by bringing in opposition parties to form a wider barisan nasional (bn) ruling coalition that had a stronger majority.
back then, mageran was made up of a small group of political leaders and top civil servants that included the police and armed forces' chiefs.
dr mahathir suggested including experts on the covid-19 pandemic this time.
pakatan harapan has opposed the idea, while umno has said that it is against extending the emergency.
opponents of prime minister muhyiddin yassin have also called for the resumption of parliament, which last sat in december last year to pass this year's budget, so that the outbreak can be addressed.
the state of emergency suspends the requirement for parliament to reconvene within six months of its last sitting and also ensures the muhyiddin administration remains in power.
tan sri muhyiddin on tuesday unveiled a four-phase post-pandemic exit plan for malaysia, ahead of the monarchs' special talks, projecting that malaysia from september might gradually open up its economy, social sectors and also parliament.
the country has failed to fully recover from a resurgent outbreak arising from sabah state polls in september last year.
in late october, malaysia was reporting some 1,200 covid-19 cases a day.
on tuesday, it recorded 5,419 cases.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
malaysia's encounter with chinese military aircraft in early june illustrates how tackling foreign aircraft coming close can be a grey area in a region of overlapping claims and different interpretations of airspaces, says mike yeo.
melbourne: the news that china sent16 military aircraftto the vicinity of disputed shoals in the south china sea on the last day of may and prompted the latter to scramble fighter jets in response raised eyebrows among regional defence watchers.
this new development has also understandably set off discussions in malaysia about its response to what was seen as a show of strength by the regional power.
malaysia has framed the issue as one of an intrusion into malaysian airspace by multiple chinese government aircraft.
the royal malaysian air force (rmaf) said in a news release on tuesday (jun 2) that 16 xian y-20 and ilyushin il-76 transport aircraft of the people's liberation army air force (plaaf) approached to within 60 nautical miles (112 km) of malaysia's coast, flying at speeds of 290 knots (537 kmh) at between 23,000 and 27,000 ft in a tactical line astern formation.
malaysian foreign minister hishammuddin hussein also said his ministry will issue a diplomatic note of protest and request an explanation from the chinese ambassador from malaysia to explain the"breach of malaysian airspace and sovereignty".
the rmaf news release added that the chinese aircraft, which flew past beting patinggi ali or luconia shoals and turning back in the vicinity of nearby james shoal, did not respond when repeatedly hailed by malaysian air traffic controllers.
after failing to identify the aircraft detected on radar, the rmaf scrambled its bae hawk 208 light combat jets from nearby labuan to intercept and investigate.
the shoals are located off the coast of sarawak and lie inside malaysia's 200 nm (370 km) exclusive economic zone, although china also lays claim to both, which are within the "nine-dash line" which it uses to claim large swaths of the south china sea.
china's show of strengthdespite the rmaf calling the overflight a "serious matter that threatens national security", there was technically nothing illegal about it.
the aircraft did not intrude into malaysia's territorial airspace and were in international airspace throughout the duration.
and while the large formation of aircraft did not make contact with malaysian air traffic controllers as they flew in airspace under control of the kota kinabalu flight information region (fir), there are no requirements for military aircraft to comply with civilian aviation rules when operating in international airspace under international civil aviation organization (icao) rules.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the plaaf aircraft were also not legally obligated to turn on their transponders that broadcast their identity and intentions.
air traffic controllers use this information to assist in managing the airspace under their control.
although malaysian civil aviation authorities exercise air traffic management and administer air traffic services within its assigned fir on grounds of safety, countries do not have sovereignty over those areas.
nevertheless, sending 16 military aircraft thousands of kilometres to fly over disputed shoals in the vicinity of a neighbouring country is unquestioningly an unfriendly and intended demonstration of presence and exercise in desensitisation, especially given the plaaf aircraft flew directly towards the malaysian coast before turning around.
in addition to cargo, these aircraft could also transport paratroopers, trucks or armoured vehicles in an invasion scenario.
this is not the first time plaaf jets have approached malaysia although this is the first time such a large aircraft force has been observed, making the recent overflight an even more noteworthy move.
this is despite a spokesman for the chinese embassy in kuala lumpur calling the exercise merely "routine flight training".
judging from the aircraft type involved and their composition makes it likely to be a long-range airlift surge exercise to hone the plaaf's skills in undertaking large scale air transportation missions over long distances.
within the same area, however, china and malaysia have had maritime standoffs near luconia shoals where chinese ships have harassed malaysian drilling rigs and supply ships in november 2020. such incidents take place as often as once a week.
while they rarely take place so close to the coast, "this is becoming quite normal", institute of strategic and international studies' senior foreign policy analyst shariman lockman said last year, speaking to voice of america.
challenging to deal with unidentified aircraftthe incident also gives an insight into how countries deal with unidentified aircraft approaching their airspace.
the rmaf said the first chinese aircraft was detected in singapore's fir (assigned by the icao and extends far into the south china sea to almost near palawan in the philippines) at 11.
53am on may 31. it added that upon crossing into the kota kinabalu fir, the unidentified aircraft were repeatedly asked to contact air traffic controllers.
when no response was forthcoming, hawk 208 light combat jets from the rmaf's labuan-based 6 squadron were scrambled to investigate the radar contacts, taking off at 1.
33pm.
judging from the map released by the rmaf which showed the boundary lines between firs and the speed of the chinese jets, the elapsed time between plaaf jets crossing into kota kinabalu fir and the order to scramble could have been as quick as 20 minutes, assuming rmaf planes were placed on the highest alert status.
an edited audio transcript published by a malaysian aviation blog of the malaysian air traffic controllers interacting with other commercial airliners and the rmaf interceptors in the lead up to and the aftermath of the intercept suggests that two hawk 208s were involved, which is expected as fighter jets typically operate in pairs at a minimum during operational missions.
however, escalating a response to the point of sending interceptors to investigate contacts is not usually required.
if suspicious aircraft respond to air traffic control queries or do not appear to pose a threat to a country's territory or enter its territorial airspace, they might not be pursued further.
this is also the case in singapore, with the republic of singapore air force (rsaf) saying previously that it investigates "more than 350 suspicious air threats on any given year in order to protect singapore's skies".
this works out to an average of almost one per day.
the rsaf has on occasion also needed to scramble interceptors when the occasion demanded it, such as when bomb threats were made on commercial flights that had departed from, or bound for, singapore – like the most recentmarch 2019 caseinvolving a singapore airlines flight from mumbai.
singapore's challenge is compounded by the busy airspace in and around the island and the proximity of a number of foreign airports nearby, which reduce response times when it comes to unidentified aircraft.
it is a challenge for air traffic controllers to decide whether an aircraft already so close to singapore's airspace could be left alone or warrant further investigation.
obviously, having to scramble fighter jets to intercept every single suspicious air contact international airspace will be an onerous task which will rapidly wear out aircraft and personnel.
in addition to radio calls which can be ignored or scrambling fighter jets, countries also have the option of asking any nearby aircraft to assist in trying to identify the suspicious aircraft.
this is something japan has come to realise.
the country recently tightened its previously liberal criteria for scrambling fighter jets to intercept foreign military aircraft operating it its expansive air defence identification zone, with intercepts of what are mostly chinese and russian military aircraft dropping to 725 times in its 2020 fiscal year from 947 previously.
last week's overflight is yet another reminder of what is often referred to as the "global commons" and the need for nations to share the use of these in transparent, responsible manner.
it is however also a reminder of the security challenges confronting the region, with unresolved territorial disputes and overlapping claims never far from bubbling to the surface.
mike yeo is the asia reporter for us-based defence publication defense news.
taipei, taiwan (ap) — china flew a record 28 fighter jets toward the self-ruled island of taiwan on tuesday, the island's defense ministry said, the largest such display of force since beijing began sending planes on a near daily basis last year.
taiwan's air force deployed its combat air patrol forces in response and monitored the situation in the southwestern part of the island's air defense identification zone with its air defense systems, the ministry of national defense said.
the planes included various types of fighter jets including 14 j-16 and six j-11 planes, as well as bombers, the ministry said.
china's show of force comes after leaders of the group of seven industrialized nations issued a statement sunday calling for a peaceful resolution of cross-taiwan strait issues and underscored the importance of peace and stability.
chinese foreign ministry spokesperson zhao lijian on tuesday said the g-7 was deliberately "interfering in china's internal affairs.
""china's determination to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests is unwavering," he said.
taiwan and china split during a civil war in 1949, but china continues to claim taiwan as part of its territory.
taiwan has been self-ruled since then.
since the election of president tsai ing-wen in 2016, china has increased diplomatic and military pressure on the government over her refusal to agree to china's insistence that the island be considered part of chinese territory.
the vast majority of taiwanese reject the prospect of political union with china under the "one country, two systems" framework used for hong kong.
since last year, china has been flying fighter jets toward the island almost daily in what it calls a demonstration of its seriousness in defending its national sovereignty.
previously, the largest such maneuver was in march, when china sent 25 fighter planes toward taiwan.
beijing's new top diplomat in hong kong, who called the battle against "foreign forces" his top priority after taking the job last month, has doubled down on that message, saying those seeking to curb china's growth or undermine its dignity are "doomed to fail".
in his first public appearance as commissioner of the chinese ministry of foreign affairs in hong kong, liu guangyuan on wednesday said last week's passing of an anti-sanctions law by china's top legislative body reflected a "pressing nealibaba group was the victim of a months-long web-scraping operation by a marketing consultant that siphoned up sensitive data including usernames and phone numbers.
meet the paypal business debit card.
use it everywhere mastercard® is accepted.
it's useful to be ready with the names of a few companies you'll scoop up in case a crash occurs.
the post 3 stocks i will buy if the market crashes tomorrow appeared first on the smart investor.
a herd of elephants on a mammoth trek across china is taking an enforced break -- as they wait for a wayward youngster to catch-up.
getting the covid-19 vaccine in singapore is easy.
according to the ministry of health (moh), as of 17 may 2021, 3.
4 million doses have been administered.
here's a guide on how to find a vaccination centre near you.
board certified internal medicine and obesity specialist reveals what happens after drinking just 1 diet soda.
click here to watch video.
with afghan troops in retreat and soon to lose vital american air support, taliban commanders are voicing exuberance about quickly seizing full control of the country and re-establishing their version of an islamic state.
japan has requested consolations with china at the world trade organization (wto) over anti-dumping duties that have been placed on its stainless steel products since july 2019, the geneva-based body confirmed on tuesday.
the request, which was circulated to wto members on tuesday after having been submitted on friday, claims the measures imposed on steel billets, hot-rolled coils and hot-rolled plates appear to be inconsistent with various provisions under the general agreement on tariffs and t* peso hits lowest since may 28  * singapore stocks track best day since may 18  * graphic: world fx rates https://tmsnrt.
rs/2rbwi5e  * asian stock markets: https://tmsnrt.
rs/2zpuar4  by shashwat awasthi  june 15 (reuters) the philippine peso fell the most in more than two months on tuesday after coronavirus curbs were prolonged in the capital manila and nearby provinces until end-june and quarantine measures were tightened to battle rising infections.
the philippines has the second highest number of infections and casualties in southeast asia after indonesia and finds its healthcare sector stretched as it battles rising cases.
president rodrigo duterte announced the extension of curbs on monday.
learn more about scalp psoriasis.
look for scalp psoriasis treatments.
the russian skipper of a container ship that caught fire and burned for almost two weeks before sinking off sri lanka's coast has been arrested and is expected to be charged with marine pollution, police said monday.
cristiano ronaldo netted a double to become the european championship's all-time leading scorer as portugal struck three times late on to beat a stubborn hungary 3-0 in their euro 2020 opener at a packed puskas arena on tuesday.
turkish president recep tayyip erdogan on tuesday pledged support for azerbaijan if the ex-soviet country was attacked, as he made a visit to the disputed nagorno-karabakh region.
celebrated surgeon and author of the new york times best seller "the plant paradox" reveals what many have suspected for a long time, and even worse.
two experienced astronauts are among the first three-man crew for china's first space station, with final preparations under way for their mission launch on thursday.
the long march 2f rocket carrying them to the tianhe module – the first part of the tiangong space station – is expected to lift off at around 9.
22am from the jiuquan satellite launch centre in the gobi desert.
propellant refuelling for the rocket was under way on wednesday morning, according to the china manned space engineering othe largest bank in singapore, dbs was named the 'world's best bank' in 2019.  if you're a loyal dbs/posb customer and have no plans to switch banks, here are the credit cards worth your salt.
as the economy grapples with the plunge in consumer spending, [.
.
. ]
the post loyal dbs/posb customers: which credit card should you add to your wallet?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
kevin durant finished with 49 points while playing every minute of the game as the brooklyn nets rallied from a 17-point deficit to beat the milwaukee bucks 114-108 in game five of their nba playoff series on tuesday.
if you're wondering whether ethereum is a good long term investment, keep reading.
moscow and beijing, both facing confrontation from the west, are likely to strengthen their alliance regardless of the outcome of a us-russia summit, observers say.
us president joe biden is expected to raise contentious issues with his russian counterpart vladimir putin when they meet in geneva on wednesday to discuss the deteriorating relationship between the kremlin and the west.
china and russia, meanwhile, have "no choice" but to move closer, especially after the g7 and nato leaders took asick of seeing others get rich in the stock market?
have you heard of everlasting stocks?the us death toll from covid-19 surpassed 600,000 on tuesday, although officials hailed progress towards a return to normality as its world-leading vaccination program promised to turn the page on one of the worst health crises in american history.
a sinking fire-damaged container ship could take months to salvage because of rough monsoon seas, sri lanka said tuesday, as authorities investigated whether the deaths of dozens of turtles and dolphins were caused by the disaster.
evos savage girl started the finals strong by defeating dr hellcats in the opener.
however, the filipina squad bounced back in the next game to force the series to a decider.
taipei, june 15 twenty-eight chinese air force aircraft, including fighters and nuclear-capable bombers, entered taiwan's air defence identification zone (adiz) on tuesday (june 15), the island's government said, the largest reported incursion to date.
while there was no immediate comment from beijing, the news comes after the group of seven leaders issued a joint statement on sunday scolding china for a series of issues and underscored the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, comments china condemned as "slander" .
chinese-claimed taiwan has complained over the last few months of repeated missions by china's air force near the self-ruled island, concentrated in the southwestern part of its air defence zone near the taiwan-controlled pratas islands.
the latest chinese mission involved 14 j-16 and six j-11 fighters, as well as four h-6 bombers, which can carry nuclear weapons, and anti-submarine, electronic warfare and early warning aircraft, taiwan's defence ministry said.
[[nid:526703]]it was the largest daily incursion since the ministry began regularly reporting chinese air force activities in taiwan's adiz last year, breaking the previous record of 25 aircraft reported on april 12. the ministry added that taiwanese combat aircraft were dispatched to intercept and warn away the chinese aircraft, while missile systems were also deployed to monitor them.
not only did the chinese aircraft fly in an area close to the pratas islands, but the bombers and some of the fighters flew around the southern part of taiwan close to the bottom tip of the island, according to a map the ministry provided.
china's defence ministry did not respond to a request for comment.
china has in the past described such missions as necessary to protect the country's sovereignty and deal with "collusion" between taipei and washington.
the united states, which like most countries has no formal diplomatic ties with taiwan, has watched with alarm the stepped up tensions with beijing.
[[nid:524615]]"in response to the growing prc threat, we will continue deepening our unofficial security relationship to ensure taiwan has sufficient capabilities to defend itself," a senior u. s.  administration official told reuters, referring to the people's republic of china.
a pentagon spokesperson added that china's "increasing military activities conducted in the vicinity of taiwan are destabilising and increase the risk of miscalculation.
"china describes taiwan as its most sensitive territorial issue and a red line the united states should not cross.
it has never renounced the possible use of force to ensure eventual unification.
singapore: more than half of the 18 new community covid-19 cases reported in singapore on monday (jun 14) are linked to a cluster at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
in its evening update, the ministry of health (moh) reported ten infections linked to the cluster, including two food stall vendors, a cooking assistant and a general worker at a food stall.
the other six cases linked to the bukit merah market cluster are: an it engineer at ibm (changi business park central 1), a student at ite college central, an unemployed woman, two retirees and a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre.
a total of 16 confirmed cases are now linked to the cluster at bukit merah view market.
the market has been closed since sunday and will remain so until tuesday to facilitate deep cleaning and to break potential transmission chains.
case 64184 clustersix other community cases were linked to case 64184, a male engineer who works at ecoxplore.
these include three cleaners who work at ascent (science park drive), eunike living and emerald park condominium.
the other three community cases linked to case 64184 are a student at amity global institute, an analyst at pinnacle credit services and a foreign domestic worker.
the total of 18 new community cases reported on monday is the highest daily number of locally transmitted infections reported in singapore since jun 3, when 35 community cases were reported.
one case was reported in a migrant workers' dormitory, a 26-year-old indian man who works as an electrician at gt engrg.
he lives at westlite juniper at 23 mandai estate.
the sole dormitory case is also a close contact of case 64184. one unlinked caseafter reporting two unlinked cases in its preliminary update, moh revised the number to one following epidemiological investigations.
the remaining 18 locally transmitted infections are linked to previous cases.
the sole unlinked case is a cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4, a 79-year-old singaporean man who is employed by ao servicepro.
there were also six imported cases, all of which had been placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in singapore.
three were returning singaporeans or permanent residents.
in all, singapore reported 25 new covid-19 infections on monday.
twenty-five more people were discharged, bringing the total number of fully recovered patients to 61,894. there are currently 138 cases in hospital, with two in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 235 have been isolated and are being cared for at community facilities.
new locations visited by community casestelok blangah food centre and three shopping malls were added to the list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
vivocity, ion orchard and excelsior shopping centre were also listed.
the full list of new locations is as follows:(image: moh)diy covid-19 test kits available from jun 16covid-19 antigen rapid test kits for self-testing will beavailable in pharmaciesfrom jun 16. these tests produce results in less than 20 minutes and detect the viral proteins in the nasal swab samples of infected people.
the tests are usually most accurate in the early stages of infection.
four self-test kits have received interim authorisation from the health sciences authority and will be sold at selected unity, watsons and guardian outlets.
the four test kits are: abbott panbio covid-19 antigen self-test, quickvue at-home otc covid-19 test, sd biosensor sars-cov-2 antigen self-test nasal and sd biosensor standard q covid-19 ag home test.
customers may purchase the test kits without a doctor's prescription but must first consult the in-store pharmacist.
as of monday, singapore has reported 62,301 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore long queues formed at the temporary covid-19 testing area set up at block 125a bukit merah view on tuesday (june 15), after the site was opened to residents.
set up on monday, the site was intended for the mandatory testing of about 85 stallholders at 116 bukit merah view after a new cluster formed at the nearby 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
as it turned out, many residents, including the elderly, had gone on monday for testing but were turned away.
on tuesday, the temporary testing site at block 125a opened up to residents after tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira made an appeal to the ministry of health (moh).
the site is open to residents until thursday.
when the straits times (st) visited block 125a's multi-purpose function hall at 10am on tuesday, two queues had formed.
one was for people who had made an appointment beforehand.
the second queue, for people who had not made an appointment, snaked past the estate's playground and spilled over to the nearby blocks.
about 120 people, mostly elderly residents, were in this queue.
the estimated wait time was one to two hours.
residents in the second queue were told to come back within the next two days as appointments for tuesday have been fully booked.
madam shanthi nadesan, 58, started queueing at 10am.
she had waited for at least an hour when she spoke to st.   she said she had made an appointment at raffles medical to get tested but decided to forgo it and have it done at block 125a instead.
"i spoke to the mp, ms joan pereira, and she said i don't have to go so far, i can just come here.
but i didn't expect to have to wait so long," said the former school librarian, who has yet to be vaccinated.
bukit merah resident simon lee, 65, had been in the queue since 9.
40am and was given a swab test about an hour later.
"they said we could just walk in, so since we are free, we just decided to queue," the taxi driver said.
mr lee, who was in the queue with his mother-in-law, wife and daughter, said he was not bothered by the waiting time.
"it shows that everyone is disciplined.
when called upon, we would do our part to be tested," he said.
a resident who wanted to be known only as madam teoh, 71, said she was prepared to wait for two hours to get tested.
"i rather come here because it's close to where i live," said the retiree, who lives at the nearby block 120.
"even if i don't queue today, i will have to queue tomorrow too," said madam teoh, who visited the bukit merah market and hawker centre every day before its temporary closure.
undergraduate germaine tan, 21, who made an appointment for a swab test at 10.
30am, joined the queue for those with bookings about five minutes before her scheduled timing.
she still had to wait in line, with about 20 others ahead of her.
"it's quite organised, because there's someone ushering the queue, so it's not so bad," said the third-year undergraduate from the singapore institute of management.
residents and members of the public who had visited either 115 bukit merah view market and food centre or shops at 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 were urged to go for a free covid-19 swab test.
staff and tenants who had been working at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre from may 25 have been quarantined and would be swabbed during quarantine.
staff and tenants who had been working in the nearby 116 bukit merah view from may 25 also had to go for their mandatory swabbing to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
customers turned up in droves at the kim choo kueh chang outlet in joo chiat yesterday to buy dumplings, ahead of the dragon boat festival today.
at around noon, a snaking queue of more than a hundred people was seen going around the building where kim choo is located in.
those in the queue observed safe distancing.
the festival, also known as duan wu jie, honours the death of famous poet qu yuan, who is said to have waded into a river to commit suicide after his country's capital was captured.
villagers set out in boats to look for him and then threw dumplings into the river to prevent fish from eating his body.
some celebrations for the festival have stayed online, amid ongoing covid-19 restrictions.
the singapore federation of chinese clan associations, singapore chinese cultural centre and toa payoh central community club held an online event, involving an art contest, to mark the occasion.
meanwhile, punggol west mp sun xueling celebrated the event with about 100 senior residents over a video call.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the covid-19 cluster at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre grew to 16 people yesterday, with 10 new cases linked to it.
the new cases, announced by the ministry of health (moh) last night, included a 94-year-old singaporean man who regularly goes to telok blangah parcview's active global active ageing hub.
the retiree developed a runny nose on june 6 and fever six days later on june 12 but did not seek medical attention.
as he is the family member of another case, he was quarantined on june 13.  he tested positive that same day.
a 21-year-old singaporean woman, who works as an it engineer at ibm in changi business park, is another new case.
a family member of two other covid-19 cases and a household contact of a third, she developed a runny nose and fever on june 12 but also did not seek medical attention.
she was quarantined on june 13 and reported her symptoms on the same day.
she also tested positive that day.
the other eight new cases in the cluster included a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre, an unemployed woman and several workers and assistants at the market and food centre as well as a 17-year-old student at ite college central, who had not been to school since may 16. a household contact of the unemployed woman, the student developed a fever and cough on june 11 and visited a general practitioner the next day, where he underwent an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
his art result was negative, but on june 13, his pcr test result was positive.
details about eight other cases in the community were also released last night, among them an unlinked one involving a 79-year-old singaporean employed by ao servicepro as a cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4. the man developed a runny nose on june 12 and diarrhoea and vomiting on june 13, and went to see a general practitioner on the same day.
he tested positive that day.
a 16-year-old student from anglo chinese school (independent), who was last in school on may 18, was among the remaining seven cases.
the singaporean student is asymptomatic and was quarantined on june 11 as he is a family member and household contact of a previous covid-19 case.
he tested positive on june 13. the other six community cases were part of the cluster linked to an engineer at ecoxplore, who was confirmed to be infected on june 12. one linked case in the dormitories was also reported yesterday.
the 26-year-old indian national works as an electrician at gt engrg and lives in westlite juniper dormitory in mandai.
he was a close contact of the engineer at ecoxplore.
the straits times25 new cases34 deaths17 community, linked138 in hospital1 community, unlinked62301 total cases6 imported61879 total recoveredget the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
source: alex tohsw / facebooka singaporean man, who goes by the moniker alex tohsw, encountered "a horrifying experience" on sunday (13 june) when his neighbour allegedly attacked him from behind with a bicycle chain attached to a lock pad, while he was cleaning the window panel outside his house.
he first posted about the incident on the complaint singapore facebook group, which has now garnered about 1.
9k shares and 1.
4k likes.
mr alex wrote that he was cleaning the window panel outside his house while standing on a metal ladder, when his neighbour suddenly attacked him from behind with a bicycle chain, which was attached to a lock pad.
"he claimed that i was blocking his path to go back home just because i placed his bicycle by the walkway," he noted.
mr alex also alleged that the neighbour hit him twice on the head and shoulder with the bicycle chain.
"i shouted for help as my head was bleeding profusely and i was in severe pain.
my 2 kids were in the living room and were startled to see me covered in blood," he added.
mr alex noted that his other neighbour intervened and quickly stopped the assailant from attacking him.
"my helpful neighbour lay me down as i was feeling unconscious but i was very worried for the safety of my 2 kids as the main door was unlocked.
thankfully my helpful neighbour was keeping an eye on the assailant," he noted.
following the incident, the police told mothership that a 65-year-old man has been arrested for "voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon" and it is currently under police investigation.
the police said it was alerted about the incident at 10.
26am on saturday at block 130 ang mo kio avenue 3.
"a 47-year-old man had sustained a laceration on his head, and was conscious when conveyed to the hospital," it noted.
while many netizens expressed their wishes for mr alex's speedy recovery under the comment section of his post, several facebook users seem to question the assailant's side of the story and what triggered him to assault mr alex in the first place.
however, many netizens pointed out that the neighbour should not use violence against mr alex nonetheless, as causing injury to others is wrong unless if it was for self-defence.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
london: british prime minister boris johnson confirmed monday (jun 14) that the next planned relaxation of coronavirus restrictions in england will be delayed by four weeks, until jul 19, as a result of the spread of the delta variant.
in a press briefing, johnson voiced his confidence that he won't need to delay the plan to lift restrictions on social contact further, as millions more people get fully vaccinated against the virus.
he said that by jul 19, two-thirds of the british population will have been double-vaccinated.
"i think it is sensible to wait just a little longer," he said.
"now is the time to ease off the accelerator, because by being cautious now we have the chance in the next four weeks to save many thousands of lives by vaccinating millions more people.
"accompanying the decision to delay the easing, johnson said the government has brought forward the date by which everyone over the age of 18 will be offered a first dose of vaccine, from the end of july to jul 19.
"it's unmistakably clear the vaccines are working and the sheer scale of the vaccine rollout has made our position incomparably better than in previous waves," he said.
under the government's plan for coming out of lockdown, all restrictions on social contact were set to be lifted next monday.
many businesses, particularly those in hospitality and entertainment, voiced their disappointment ahead of the official announcement.
the delta variant first found in india is estimated by scientists advising the government to be between 40 per cent and 80 per cent more transmissible than the previous dominant strain.
it now accounts for more than 90 per cent of infections in the uk.
when johnson first outlined the government's four-stage plan for lifting the lockdown in england in february, he set jun 21 as the earliest date by which restrictions on people gathering would be lifted.
however, he stressed at the time that the timetable was not carved in stone and that all the steps would be driven by "data not dates" and would seek to be "irreversible".
the speed at which new coronavirus infections have been rising had piled the pressure on johnson to delay the reopening so more people can get vaccinated.
on monday, the british government reported 7,742 new confirmed cases, one of the highest daily numbers since the end of february.
daily infections have increased threefold over the past few weeks but are still way down from the nearly 70,000 daily cases recorded in january.
many blame the conservative government for the spike in infections, saying it acted too slowly to impose the strictest quarantine requirements on everyone arriving from india, which has endured a catastrophic resurgence of the virus.
across europe, many countries, including france, have tightened restrictions for british travelers to prevent the delta variant from spreading.
others, like spain, are allowing british tourists to arrive without being required to take a test if they have been fully vaccinated.
despite concerns about the delta variant, the uk's vaccine rollout has won plaudits as one of the world's speediest and most coherent.
as of monday, around 62 per cent of the british population had received one shot, while about 45 per cent had got two jabs.
the rapid rollout of vaccines and a strict months-long lockdown helped drive down the number of virus-related deaths in the uk in recent months.
despite that, the country has recorded nearly 128,000 virus-related deaths, more than any other nation in europe.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore three decades after mount pinatubo in the philippines billowed enough ash to blanket singapore and cut out enough sunlight worldwide to cool the earth for years, nanyang technological university (ntu) scientists are looking into how the republic can better prepare for future eruptions.
the eruption on june 15, 1991 the world's largest in the past 100 years sent ash to singapore on the evening of june 17.  the ash hung in the air here for three weeks before clearing, with some people reporting allergic reactions.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
myanmar's junta-controlled media on monday (jun 14) accused an ethnic armed group of killing 25 construction workers in the east of the country after abducting a group of 47 people last month.
reuters was unable to reach the karen national defence organisation (kndo) for comment on the accusation.
the junta spokesman did not answer calls to seek further comment.
reuters was unable to independently verify details of the incident or the identities of those reported killed.
conflicts in myanmar's borderlands have reignited in several places since the army seized power on feb 1 and overthrew elected leader aung san suu kyi.
the global new light of myanmar newspaper and army controlled myawaddy television showed pictures of what appeared to be 25 dead bodies laid in a forest clearing.
they said the men had been working on the uhu creek bridge in the myawaddy district, near the border with thailand, and were abducted from the construction site on may 31 in a group that also included 10 children and six women.
the global new light of myanmar said a total of seven bodies were found on jun 11, one burnt and the others with hands tied behind their backs.
it said the other 18 bodies were found on jun 12.
"officials from the bridge construction site checked the dead bodies with their identities to inform parents and relatives," it said.
fighting has intensified in eastern myanmar since the coup and clashes have driven thousands of people from their homes.
the kndo, which has been fighting for greater autonomy for the karen people since 1947, is among the ethnic armed groups that have strongly opposed the military takeover.
the junta's forces have killed more than 860 people since the coup, according to the assistance association for political prisoners activist group.
the junta has said the number is much lower.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
london (reuters) covid-19 vaccines made by pfizer and astrazeneca offer high protection of more than 90 per cent against hospitalisation from the delta coronavirus variant, a new analysis by public health england (phe) showed on monday (june 14).
british prime minister boris johnson announced on monday a delay to the lifting of covid-19 restrictions in england due to the spread of the highly transmissible delta variant of concern, first identified in india, which is also associated with a higher risk of hospitalisation among the unvaccinated.
phe said that the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine was 96 per cent effective against hospitalisation from the delta variant after two doses, while oxford-astrazeneca's offered 92 per cent protection against hospitalisation by delta.
phe said that those levels of protection were comparable to that against the alpha variant, first identified in kent, south-east england.
the analysis adds to evidence that although the delta variant reduces the effectiveness of vaccines against symptomatic infection, two doses of a covid-19 vaccine still protect against severe disease.
"these hugely important findings confirm that the vaccines offer significant protection against hospitalisation from the delta variant," said ms mary ramsay, head of immunisation at phe.
the phe findings follow a scottish study which showed that two doses of a covid-19 vaccine among people who tested positive cut their risk of hospitalisation by 70 per cent, although there were not enough hospital admissions reported to compare the vaccines.
phe said that while further work was being undertaken to establish the level of protection against mortality from the delta variant, levels of protection against death were expected to be high.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — power-assisted bicycle (pab) and e-scooter riders must soon pass a mandatory online theory test before they are able to ride on cycling paths and roads, the land transport authority (lta) said on monday (14 june).
the rule, which will take effect from 1 january 2022, will improve awareness of active mobility rules, code of conduct and safe riding practices, said lta.
separate tests for pab and e-scooter users will be available on singapore polytechnic's (sp) professional & adult continuing education (pace) academy at www.
pace.
sp.
edu.
sg from 30 june in english, chinese, malay and tamil.
to help riders prepare for the tests, e-handbooks in these languages have been made available at go.
gov.
sg/amrules.
this will comprise 30 multiple-choice questions for the e-scooter test and 40 for the pab test, with 30 minutes and 40 minutes given respectively to complete the tests.
a digital certificate, with no expiry date, will be issued to those who pass.
the passing score is 80 per cent.
riders, who must be at least 16 years old, must register for an account on the theory test portal using their singpass at least a day before taking the test.
e-scooter riders below the age of 16 can only ride under adult supervision, and the supervising adult will need to have passed the test.
those who register for the test from 30 june to 30 september will enjoy a discounted fee of $5 per test, with a free second attempt should they fail on the first.
riders who register after 30 september must pay $10 per test attempt.
there will be a transition period of six months – 30 june to 31 december – for riders to prepare, take and complete the test before enforcement kicks in.
from 1 january 2022, riders must show their digital certificate when requested by enforcement officers.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:singapore reports 13 new covid-19 cases, 10 from the communitystudents to gradually return to school from 28 june: moeshn rules for travellers from fiji tightened, for travellers from israel easedan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
a 60-year-old man has been arrested for the attempted murder of a 52-year-old man in choa chu kang.
the police said in a statement that they responded to a case of assault with a knife at a carpark along choa chu kang avenue 3 on saturday (june 12) at about 9.
35pm.
upon arrival, officers found the 52-year-old man with stab wounds at the scene.
he was conscious when taken to the hospital.
preliminary investigations revealed that the 60-year-old man had allegedly attacked the man who was known to him.
the suspect fled the scene before the police arrived and was subsequently arrested within two hours of the reported crime.
police investigations are ongoing.
he will be charged in court on monday (june 14) with attempted murder.
if found guilty, he will be liable for life imprisonment, a jail term of up to 20 years and a fine, or both.
male offenders above 50 are spared caning.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when five-year-old travis wong achieved distinction in the grade 8 violin performance examination conducted by london-based associated board of the royal schools of music (abrsm) in april, his family was surprised.
travis, who turned six last month, picked up the violin when he was three.
he had less than four months to master four pieces of music after his first test, the grade 5 violin performance exam, last december.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the taishan nuclear power plant in back in 2013. photographer: peter parks/afp/getty imagesthe french utility that partly owns a nuclear power plant near hong kong is seeking more information on a gas buildup in a reactor, even as its chinese partner insists the facility is operating safely.
electricite de france sa, which has a 30% stake in the taishan nuclear plant in south china, has called for an extraordinary board meeting with majority owner china general nuclear power corp. , or cgn, to discuss the increased concentration of inert gases at the unit 1 reactor in guangdong.
paris-based edf's call for more information on the issue -- first detected in october -- comes after cgn said sunday that environmental indicators at and around the facility are normal.
it's premature to say whether the reactor will have to be halted, spokespeople for edf said.
a spokesperson for shenzhen-based cgn referred to earlier statements on the issue when asked to comment on edf's request.
shares of the firm's hong kong-listed unit fell as much as 3.
5% in tuesday trading as other uranium-related stocks dropped.
data from the joint company that operates the facility, tnpjvc, suggest the coating on "a few fuel rods" has deteriorated, leading to increased gas within the primary loop of the reactor, edf told reporters monday.
the system is designed to collect and treat these gases before they are released outside the plant, and the gas buildup and emissions have remained within chinese regulatory limits, which are in line with average international standards, edf said.
china's national nuclear safety administration said in april the plant's unit 1 had experienced an operational incident that was categorized as minor, and not of safety significance.
edf, the world's largest operator of nuclear power stations, has faced fuel rod leaks at its french plants in the past.
such leaks don't necessarily require a halt if gas emissions remain within regulatory limits, the spokespersons said.
in france, the deterioration of fuel rods was caused either by a default in the fuel assemblies, or because they were damaged by a stray element in the reactor, they said.
the taishan plant, about 130 kilometers (80 miles) west of hong kong, has two units with a combined capacity of 3.
3 gigawatts that came online in 2018 and 2019, making them the most powerful reactors in operation.
they were designed by framatome, a subsidiary of edf, which also supplied their atomic fuel.
each reactor contains 241 fuel assemblies, which consist of 265 rods each, according to the french utility.
framatome warned the u. s.  government of an "imminent radiological threat" at the plant, cnn reported monday, citing unnamed u. s.  officials and documents the news network says it has reviewed.
the unit is "supporting resolution of a performance issue with the taishan nuclear power plant," framatome said in an email, adding that "according to the data available, the plant is operating within the safety parameters.
"several high-level meetings have taken place in washington, as well as discussions between the u. s.  and french governments and contact between the u. s.  and chinese administrations, as a result of framatome's concerns, cnn reported.
u. s.  officials do not believe the situation poses a severe safety threat to the public or workers at the plant, cnn said.
the taishan issue is arising amid a power shortage in guangdong, the country's industrial hub, that has caused more than 20 cities to ration electricity to some companies and factories.
unit 1 was operating normally and unit 2 was reconnected to the grid last week after an overhaul, cgn said.
issues at the china facility are also a new setback for edf, which is facing construction delays and cost overruns at similar atomic projects in france and the u. k.  it's been showcasing the taishan reactors to convince these two countries to build more such nuclear plants, and other nations such as poland and india to adopt the technology.
china is the world's third-biggest nuclear power market, after the u. s.  and france, and has the most new reactors under construction.
it's never had a serious nuclear accident on domestic soil.
— with assistance by alfred cang, and krystal chia
the government has lifted the 30-person limit on weddings – but dancing remains banned.
under the new rules for weddings, dancing indoors is still not permitted except for the couple's first dance.
on monday, boris johnson delayed the end of england's coronavirus lockdown until 19 july.
however, one key change to the restrictions saw johnson scrap the 30-guest limit for wedding ceremonies and receptions from 21 june: the date the lockdown was supposed to end.
watch: 30-person limit on weddings in england lifted from 21 junethe number of attendees will instead be decided by how many people the venue can safely accommodate with social distancing measures in place.
as well as indoor dancing not being allowed, other restrictions must remain in place.
food and drink must be ordered, served and consumed by guests seated at a table, while attendees must also wear face masks.
new rules also state that anyone organising weddings in gardens of private homes, or on private land, must complete a covid risk assessment if they want more than 30 people to attend.
johnson, meanwhile, was asked about wedding restrictions by a member of the public at monday's downing street press conference.
tessa from bedfordshire, who said she had to postpone her wedding twice, asked the prime minister why testing and vaccination status cannot be used to open up weddings in the same way it is being used for football matches.
she said it feels like weddings are "bottom of the priority list despite being significant life events without which some people cannot progress with their lives".
read more:pm delays end of covid restrictions by up to four weeks over delta variant fears'totally unacceptable': sir lindsay hoyle vents anger over move to hold covid road map press conference before mps are toldjohnson said: "i'm very, very sorry to hear about your wedding plans being postponed twice.
indeed, obviously, i'm sorry for all the disappointment that's going to be caused by going a bit slower as we are today.
"all i can say is i'm sorry for the disappointment that this will certainly bring to weddings, to many, many businesses, but it's a few weeks that i think is worth it to get those jabs in.
"johnson himself married his fiancee, carrie symonds, at the end of last month with a 30-person limit at the ceremony.
watch: pm delays end of covid restrictions by up to four weeks over delta variant fearsan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement on sunday (june 13).
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till june 15 to help f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms as well as 20 per cent funding of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from monday, some covid-19 restrictions will be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in eateries will be allowed only from june 21, assuming the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being reintroduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march 2020 to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign  boosted  its sales and social media presence, slake is  now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
mirroring esg's sentiment, ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

revised death tolls suggest that more than a million may have died during india's brutal second coronavirus wave, which is now ebbing
as india's devastating covid-19 second wave continues to subside, data has emerged that suggests undercounting of its virus death toll by up to five times during the spring.
officially, india has reported 374,000 fatalities from the virus but successive modelling studies by epidemiologists had already predicted the toll is much higher.
approximately 1.
2 million indians had already died by may 15, according dr bhramar mukherjee, a professor of public health and epidemiology at the university of michigan, who has been tracking india's pandemic.
now, new analysis of government mortality data from the southern state of andhra pradesh shows over 130,000 deaths in may, nearly five times the number of fatalities for the same month in 2018 and 2019. in the central state of madhya pradesh, april and may saw nearly three times as many deaths as in previous years.
the authorities in both states refused to comment on whether the additional deaths were due to the virus but across india, there have been repeated reports of state governments undercounting covid-19 fatalities.
politically, india is governed via a federal system and this has encouraged state governments to underreport covid-19 fatalities in political point-scoring and to reduce panic among citizens.
in many states, covid-19 fatalities were often only reported if the victim had no other co-morbidities, and instead fatalities were marked as being related to a variety of other causes, including heart attacks or diabetes.
a succession of investigations by the indian and international media found the number of daily covid-19 burials at individual cremation sites were also exceeding city-wide death tolls.
in india's capital of delhi, families of covid-19 victims reported that they were having to wait for up to 24 hours to cremate their bodies.
on wednesday, bihar, one of india's poorest states, revised its total covid-19 death toll from 5,424 to 9,429 following an investigation, after partially decomposed bodies of dozens of alleged virus victims were found floating in the river ganges.
the true covid-19 death toll could be higher still in bihar, though, as even pre-pandemic, only one-third of fatalities were registered.
this figure is believed to have dropped further with people wary of visiting hospitals out of fear of contracting the virus themselves.
there has also been a slight increase in deaths from other chronic diseases, such as cancer or kidney disease, as some patients were unable to access life-saving treatment during the height of covid-19 admissions.
however, there are increasingly encouraging signs that india's devastating second wave is starting to ebb.
on monday, the number of new daily cases dropped to 70,421, after exceeding 400,000 in mid-may.
in the city of ahmedabad, in one of india's worst-hit states of gujarat, doctors reported that the occupancy of covid-19 beds had fallen from 98 percent on march 23 to just two percent on june 12. protect yourself and your family by learning more about global health security we rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
we urge you to turn off your ad blocker for the telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
thank you for your support.
need help?visit our adblocking instructions
page.
[singapore, june 14, 2021] asiaone online (asiaone) is pleased to announce the appointment of mr sean ler  as ceo of the digital news site, effective june 16, 2021.  mr ler takes over from interim ceo of asiaone and group ceo for mm2 asia mr chang long jong.
mr chang will remain as the group ceo for mm2 asia and on the board of directors of asiaone.
mr ler is a proven executive with more than 18 years of experience in business operations and strategy.
he joined asiaone's parent company, mm2 asia in may this year as head of group digital strategy.
prior to his joining mm2, he served as the head of programmes and partnerships at temasek foundation in which he spearheaded their covid-19 community projects, such as the distributions of masks and hand sanitiser.
mr ler has also held various roles in the singapore navy, the prime minister's office, and the ministry of home affairs singapore.
mr ler will be overseeing asiaone's strategy to grow audiences both locally, and in the region.
"asiaone is an established digital brand strategically positioned as 'off centre, on trend'.
we will continue to deliver relevant and high-quality content while increasing our offerings.
audiences can look forward to more diverse content from the region, including those in chinese," says mr ler.
mr chan cheow-pong, head of media strategy at sph and board director of asiaone says, "we are delighted to welcome sean as the new ceo of asiaone.
sean's strong leadership qualities will help chart a new course for asiaone towards excellence in digital media.
with his background in digital outreach and community building, he will further strengthen asiaone and its brand in the exciting era ahead. "
mr chang long jong, group ceo for mm2 asia says, "the board would like to express its thanks and appreciation to mr ler for accepting the role at asiaone.
his significant public and private sector experience will be invaluable as we continue to expand and grow in asia.
we look forward to his leadership in steering asiaone to its future milestones of success.
"asiaone was founded in 1995 by singapore press holdings (sph) and is one of singapore's earliest digital media sites with a focus on social news and trending topics in singapore, malaysia and the region.
mm2 asia acquired 51 per cent equity interest in 2018, and asiaone is now operated as a joint venture between mm2 asia and sph invest, a wholly-owned subsidiary of sph.
presently the site is the third most-read news site in singapore, serving over 5 million unique users monthly.
about asiaone (www.
asiaone.
com)at asiaone, we deliver the latest trending news on entertainment, lifestyle, digital culture, and money to our readers from across the region.
founded over 25 years ago in singapore, asiaone is one of asia's top pure-play digital content sites that gives readers a fresh perspective of what's happening, packaged in a relatable way that matters.
our readers have access to daily articles that are on-trend reporting which has a unique, fun and quirky perspective on the day's happenings.
we are focused on informing and inspiring our readers with positivity and trustworthiness.
in 2020, we refreshed our logo to a zesty orange colour, representing the boldness and vocality we are committed to in bringing our readers stories with a unique "on trend, off centre" spin.
the digital platform is a joint venture between mm2 asia and sph invest, a wholly-owned subsidiary of sph.
follow asiaone on social media:
facebook: @asiaonecom / facebook.
com/asiaonecom
twitter: @asiaonecom / twitter.
com/asiaonecom
instagram: @asiaonecom / instagram.
com/asiaonecom
youtube: youtube.
com/asiaone
telegram: @asiaonecom / t. me/asiaonecom 
tiktok: @asiaone / tiktok.
com/@asiaone
linkedin: @asiaonecom / linkedin.
com/company/asiaonecomeditor@asiaone.
com
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore private-sector analysts have raised their forecast for singapore's economic growth this year to above the government's 4 per cent to 6 per cent range, despite the latest round of tighter covid-19 restrictions.
the republic's gross domestic product (gdp) may expand by 6.
5 per cent this year, higher than the 5.
8 per cent estimated in march, according to the latest quarterly survey released by the monetary authority of singapore (mas) on monday (june 14).
this comes after the economy grew by 1.
3 per cent in the first quarter, when survey respondents had forecast a 1.
1 per cent contraction.
survey respondents expect the economy to grow 15 per cent year on year in the april to june quarter, a robust jump off singapore's worst-ever quarter on record last year when gdp plunged 13.
2 per cent.
the forecast for growth next year has also been raised to 4 per cent from 3.
8 per cent tipped in the march survey.
analysts said that the covid-19 restrictions rolled out in singapore in recent weeks are not expected to weigh too heavily on the overall recovery picture.
cimb private banking economist song seng wun pointed to the momentum seen from the stronger-than-expected performance in the first quarter, and noted that most sectors in singapore have still been able to operate despite the tighter measures under the heightened alert phase.
it is largely the consumer-facing sectors like retail and food and beverage which have been hit, he added.
ocbc bank head of treasury research and strategy selena ling highlighted that the low base seen last year in addition to the expectation that tighter measures will be gradually lifted also contributed to the view that any adverse performance during this period is only a "temporary speed bump to growth recovery".
"moreover, the vaccination pace has been stepped up and vaccine supply is expected to resolve in the coming period," she said.
effective containment of the covid-19 outbreak topped the list of factors that could see the economists raising their growth outlook for singapore.
they also flagged the stronger-than-expected manufacturing sector performance, driven in part by robust global demand for electronics, as a big upside factor.
the prospect of reopening borders to international travel could also be a boon to the economy.
at the same time, deterioration in the pandemic situation and tighter public health measures as a result was the top downside risk to the growth outlook.
the economists polled were also concerned about geopolitical risks, including those stemming from united states-china tensions, and a slower-than-expected labour market recovery, which could weigh on private consumption.
ms ling said: "the main downside risk is if the borders don't reopen, then manpower costs will continue to be the extra whammy for the construction and other labour-intensive sectors.
"this is in addition to the periodic setbacks that new covid-19 variants and resurgence in infections that could disrupt economic activities, she added.
the survey predicts a lower unemployment rate of 2.
7 per cent at year-end, down from the 2.
9 per cent forecast in march.
the key manufacturing sector is expected to provide an important boost to singapore's economy, with economists hiking their 2021 growth forecast for the sector to 8.
3 per cent, way above the 4.
7 per cent predicted in march.
the forecast for non-oil domestic exports growth was also raised, to 7.
5 per cent from 6.
9 per cent, reflecting upbeat sentiments for global trade.
meanwhile, predictions for construction, accommodation and food services sectors which have been weighed down by covid-19 restrictions were lowered slightly for the full year.
inflation, measured by the consumer price index for all items, is expected to come in at 1.
4 per cent for the year, higher than the median forecast of 0.
9 per cent in march.
the median forecast for core inflation, which excludes volatile accommodation and private transport costs, was raised to 0.
8 per cent from 0.
7 per cent previously.
the survey was sent out on may 25.  it reflects the views of 24 respondents and not mas' own forecasts.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
yangon: the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court on monday (jun 14), more than four months after a military coup.
near daily protests have rocked myanmar since the generals' putsch removed her government in february, ending a 10-year experiment with democracy.
the mass uprising has been met with a brutal military crackdown that has killed more than 850 people, according to a local monitoring group.
the junta has brought an eclectic raft of charges against the nobel laureate, from illegally accepting 11kg of gold to breaking a colonial-era secrecy law.
on monday, her defence team will cross-examine witnesses over charges she improperly imported walkie-talkies and flouted coronavirus restrictions during last year's elections that her national league for democracy (nld) won in a landslide.
her lawyers who have been allowed to meet with her just twice since she was placed under house arrest have said they expect the trial to wrap up by jul 26. hearings for the case will take place every monday.
if convicted of all charges, aung san suu kyi, 75, faces more than a decade in jail.
"we are hoping for the best but prepared for the worst," khin maung zaw, one of suu kyi's lawyers, told afp ahead of the hearing in the capital naypyidaw.
a separate case is scheduled to start on jun 15, where she is charged with sedition alongside ousted president win myint and another senior member of the nld.
cloistered iconaung san suu kyi spent more than 15 years under house arrest during the previous junta's rule before her 2010 release.
her international stature diminished following a wave of military violence targeting buddhist-majority myanmar's marginalised muslim rohingya community, but the coup has returned aung san suu kyi to the role of cloistered democracy icon.
on thursday, she was hit with additional corruption charges of illegally accepting us$600,000 in cash and around 11kg of gold.
her lawyer khin maung zaw dismissed the new charges which could see aung san suu kyi hit with another lengthy prison term as "absurd".
"there is an undeniable political background to keep her out of the scene of the country and to smear her prestige," he told afp last week.
"that's one of the reasons to charge her to keep her out of the scene.
"myanmar has plunged into a "human rights catastrophe" since the coup, the un rights chief michelle bachelet said on friday, adding that the military leadership was "singularly responsible" for the crisis.
bachelet also slammed the sweeping arrests in the country of activists, journalists and opponents of the regime, citing credible sources saying at least 4,804 people remain in arbitrary detention.
junta leader min aung hlaing has justified his power grab by citing alleged electoral fraud in the november poll won by suu kyi's nld.
the junta has previously said it would hold fresh elections within two years, but has also threatened to dissolve the nld.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
he had left home on the morning of june 18, 1991, and walked to his car like on any other day, only to find it coated with a film of light grey powder.
"what a nuisance, i first thought, and wiped it away as best as i could," recounted associate professor simon tay, 60, chairman of the singapore institute of international affairs.
he thought it was dust the wind had blown from a nearby construction site, but soon learnt that the impossible had happened.
fine ash from a volcano more than 2,400km across the sea in the philippines had been blown to singapore, blanketing the ground, cars and even the floors of houses islandwide with a layer of ash.
over at the weather observation point at changi airport, mr mah king kheong, then an operational meteorologist for meteorological service singapore (mss), saw a fine layer of whitish-grey "dust" on the ground and side railings.
"the ash in the atmosphere was quite fine, like what we observe on a hazy day," recalled mr mah, 56, who is now a principal meteorologist at mss.
the 24-hour pollutant standards index was in the "moderate" range, between 57 and 70, from june 17 to 19, he said.
after more than 500 years in deep slumber, mount pinatubo on luzon island awakened with a vengeance, rocking the planet with a series of eruptions in mid-june 1991.  the biggest explosion on june 15 blew ash to singapore on the evening of june 17. mr mah said mss received calls from the public, asking about the cause of the ash.
the straits times' newsline also received more than 50 calls.
it took about three weeks for the amount of dust in the air to return to normal.
water quality here was unaffected.
on june 17 and 18, several members of the public complained about sneezing and coughing more than usual, while others complained of itchy skin, reported st. while people were inconvenienced by having to wash their clothes and cars again, car wash facilities had a windfall.
"the tv coverage of the mount pinatubo eruption was stark and disturbing not only the eruption itself, but also the heavy rain and surging mudflows that destroyed so much in their path," prof tay recalled.
as the assistant director of the singapore international foundation then, he sent a small team of medical volunteers to the philippines to help.
"we are glad to be safe (in singapore), spared from hardships, but should we be inured to disasters?
"shabana begumjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
would that be by cash, card or a handful of equal payments over a few months?starrie lee, 23, opted for the latter when she bought a computer monitor online in may.
in just a few clicks, the analyst for a technology consultancy split her purchase over three installments using a singapore-based "buy now, pay later," or bnpl, service known as rely.
she is scheduled to pay off her roughly s$500 ($380) bill in july.
"as someone who does strict budgeting on my monthly expenses, using bnpl gives me more flexibility and reasonableness in managing my cash flow," lee said.
"it prevents me from overspending.
"many officials in singapore, though, aren't convinced gen z consumers like lee are spending wisely.
the growing popularity of bnpl services among young singaporeans is unnerving regulators and politicians who fear bnpl apps prey on 20-somethings who may be financially naive.
"young adults without sufficient financial awareness can have access to credit lines before they have the necessary earning capacity," said cheryl chan, a member of parliament from the ruling people's action party, in an email.
"this is an unhealthy trend.
"among those sounding the alarm is the monetary authority of singapore, the city-state's de-facto central bank, which has launched a media campaign warning the payment methods may lead to debt and consumer credit risk.
the rely service.
photographer: wei leng tay/bloombergin one  article in the straits times newspaper, the mas encouraged people to avoid borrowing for shopping sprees.
"you should always spend within your means and not see bnpl schemes as a way to buy items that are more expensive than you can afford," the report said.
"do not be a hostage to your spending habits.
"bnpl services, also known as point-of-sale loans, allow buyers to spread out the cost of a purchase over a few months without interest fees, making even big-ticket items seem within reach.
already popular in the west, the services are gaining ground in singapore and other parts of southeast asia.
globally, the market for these payment services is expected to grow to about $33.
6 billion by 2027 from $7.
3 billion in 2019, according to consulting firm coherent market insights.
most singapore users are between 20 and 35, according to local bnpl companies, indicating that younger people are moving away from the traditional mindset against debt that many southeast asians hold.
retailers like sephora and zara accept the installment payments, with merchants paying bnpl companies a fee for each transaction.
a promoter for atome app outside a zara store in singapore.
photographer: wei leng tay/bloomberg"people want to have the latest fashion and look like they're on trend," anton ruddenklau, partner and head of financial services at  kpmg llp in singapore said.
"that is a big driver for people purchasing goods and then deciding to smooth the payments over time.
"the covid-19 pandemic has accelerated the rise of bnpl services in the city-state by forcing merchants and consumers online, allowing shoppers to search quickly for the best deals and easily opt to use the payment method.
"a lot of our users are obviously being impacted by the coronavirus – either they were furloughed or it's just created more uncertainty for someone's income or budget," said ed chin, founder of local bnpl startup octifi.
"so a product like ours essentially creates more flexibility for them.
"some of southeast asia's technology giants have waded into the business.
ride-hailing firm grab holdings inc. 's paylater service launched in 2019 and is available in singapore and other countries in the region.
traveloka indonesia pt is continuing to expand its bnpl offering, with a focus on thailand and vietnam.
while most bnpl services are typically used for smaller-value purchases, 27% of singaporeans said they were financially worse off due to a bnpl purchase, according to a 2020 report from financial comparison platform finder, and 9% said they had paid penalties for missing payments.
unlike traditional credit cards which require comprehensive checks and paperwork to verify an individual's identity and credit worthiness, bnpl services allow users above 18 years old to create an account and begin shopping after entering personal information and linking at least a valid debit card.
late-fee charges typically range from s$5 to s$60.
the atome app.
photographer: wei leng tay/bloombergone startup, atome, launched in 2019 and works with more than 2,000 retailers across the region.
the company's average transaction sizes in singapore are typically around s$150, according to chief executive david chen.
"a credit card is a product that encourages spending but bnpl is not, as once you are overdue, we freeze the account," said chen.
the company conducts fraud, credit and risk assessment checks, he added, and observes repayment behavior history and incidence of late or missed payments.
the services currently fall outside mas regulations on credit that apply to banks and finance companies, chairman  tharman shanmugaratnam wrote in a recent  reply to questions posed in parliament.
the regulator will consider measures such as verifying bnpl users' incomes and creating a centralized system to check on advances taken between credit cards and bnpl platforms.
mas cannot yet share a timeline for the conclusion of its review, a spokesperson said in an email.
in the meantime, the central bank is counting on its media blitz to have an impact.
the regulator has worked with an online youth magazine to highlight the risks of overspending via bnpl services.
"if not careful, one could chalk up debt across multiple installment plans and get into financial distress, especially for someone without a stable income," mas warned.
still, the services could take off further among southeast asia's growing youth population.
the alternative payments method provides greater access to liquidity for the under-banked in emerging markets, according to octifi's chin.
eager to capture market share, atome, octifi and rely have plans to expand across the region.
as they do, they will be targeting consumers like chang wei yue, a 26-year-old public relations executive who recently finished paying off a s$2,000 purchase of invisible braces.
"it was super hassle-free and it put me at ease knowing i didn't have to pay the full sum right up front," she said.
— with assistance by chia woon eunice chua
topics
corporate tax cut | corporation tax | multinational corporations

william horobin | bloomberg 								  								  								  								  							  	  							  

							  last updated at june 15, 2021 00:43 ist
https://mybs.
in/2zf9sria global minimum corporate tax would generate around $150 billion in extra revenue for governments across the world, according to the official overseeing frenetic talks to get a deal between 139 countries in coming weeks.
"this is not an anecdotal amount," pascal saint-amans, director of the center for tax policy at the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), said on bfm business television on monday.
"in some ways, this is the end of the work on regulating globalisation for greater tax justice. "
after seven years of technical work on an overhaul of international taxation, negotiators at the oecd will meet in paris june 30 with the aim of making a proposal before a meeting of the group of 20 industrialised nations in july.
that follows an agreement between the group of seven to set a floor on corporate tax rates of "at least 15 per cent" instead of the current average of 6 per cent to 7 per cent.
the $150 billion estimate by saint-aman takes into account the oecd deal on minimum tax, as well as a revised version of existing us measures on taxing foreign profits known as gilti.
alongside negotiations on a global minimum rate, the oecd is also working on a system to divide up between governments the rights to tax multinationals, particularly tech firms.
the g7 proposed applying new rules to the "largest and most profitable" businesses, but that has raised concerns that amazon.
com would not be included because of its thin margins.
saint-amans said those concerns are a "false debate," because the oecd plans to segment its operations to isolate the online retailer's high-margin cloud services operations.
"the draft agreement foresees that cloud profits would be part of the solution and shared out between states," saint amans said.
he added that political momentum to stop firms parking profits in tax havens, and a need for governments to repair finances after the pandemic, mean that a g-20 deal is possible.
"it's a month already that we've had little sleep, and the next two weeks will be very important," saint-amans said.
"common sense is difficult for the international community, but i think we can get there. "
business standard has always strived hard to provide up-to-date information and commentary on developments that are of interest to you and have wider political and economic implications for the country and the world.
your encouragement and constant feedback on how to improve our offering have only made our resolve and commitment to these ideals stronger.
even during these difficult times arising out of covid-19, we continue to remain committed to keeping you informed and updated with credible news, authoritative views and incisive commentary on topical issues of relevance.
we, however, have a request.
as we battle the economic impact of the pandemic, we need your support even more, so that we can continue to offer you more quality content.
our subscription model has seen an encouraging response from many of you, who have subscribed to our online content.
more subscription to our online content can only help us achieve the goals of offering you even better and more relevant content.
we believe in free, fair and credible journalism.
your support through more subscriptions can help us practise the journalism to which we are committed.
support quality journalism and subscribe to business standard.
digital editor
previous storynext storycopyrights © 2021 business standard private ltd.  all rights reserved.
upgrade to premium services business standard is happy to inform you of the launch of "business standard premium services"as a premium subscriber you get an across device unfettered access to a range of services which include:premium services in partnership with dear guest,welcome to the premium services of business standard brought to you courtesy fis.
kindly visit the manage my subscription page to discover the benefits of this programme.
enjoy reading!
team business standard
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore calls to the samaritans of singapore's (sos) mental health helpline spiked 40 per cent on may 16, the day singapore started heightened alert restrictions.
following the announcement of restrictions on may 4, sos experienced a 12 per cent increase in the volume of calls that week compared with the week before, sos chief executive gasper tan told the straits times.
seven out of 10 mental health organisations and professionals st spoke to saw spikes of between 20 and 60 per cent in queries and incidents like mental health crises because of the covid-19 pandemic and the social restrictions that have been used to contain the virus' spread.
those increased restrictions and the subsequent loss of support from outside the home compounded stress factors such as fears about the virus, difficult living situations, and fears about job loss and the future, say social workers.
caregivers alliance limited (cal), a non-profit organisation that helps the caregivers of those with mental health issues, said that it saw a "disturbing increase" in attempted and completed suicides between may last year and april this year among people being cared for.
cal's head of communications, ms tricia lee, said: "we have seen a rise in crisis cases as the mental health appointments or daycare programmes of caregivers' loved ones were halted.
the social restrictions in some cases caused rising tension within families, increasing the risk of relapse (into a mental health crisis).
"many students also found home-based learning stressful and missed the social interactions of schooling, support organisations said.
mr cho ming xiu, founder and executive director of campus psy, a mental health organisation for youth, said that it has seen a 40 per cent increase in the number of young people seeking emotional support via e-mail, and a 20 to 30 per cent increase across various social media platforms.
despite singapore's experience with the circuit breaker last year, the speed at which heightened alert measures came into effect made the situation difficult for many.
"with the sudden limitations of movement, many of our callers found themselves struggling to adjust and adapt to the newly implemented restrictions," said sos' mr tan.
"many had to cancel their plans and return to working from home or home-based learning arrangements, which contribute to a state of loss and helplessness.
"the accumulation of these stressors may be overwhelming and with no one to speak to, they reach out to sos.
"however, the experience of last year's circuit breaker helped some organisations prepare for the sudden onset of restrictions, which included a ban on dining in eateries and reduced group sizes for social meetings from five to two.
to meet the intensified need for support, cal has increased its number of helplines from one to six since april last year, as well as the frequency of its caregivers-to-caregivers programmes.
these programmes provide fully funded training and support to caregivers of people with mental health issues, such as dementia.
silver ribbon singapore, a charity that provides free counselling services, said it saw a 20 per cent increase in calls, but social worker phay yan deng, 29, said the organisation was more prepared to provide support online this time round.
he said that during the circuit breaker period, it was "initially slightly overwhelmed as many things were quite new to us".
"in the past, we provided emotional support only face to face", whereas most of its work, from referral to actual sessions, is now done online, he said.
however, while organisations may be better prepared, silver ribbon's executive director, ms porsche poh, said it is not helpful to assume that people should be able to cope with heightened alert restrictions just because they have been through it before.
"they might have limited social support, or face a new set of challenges during this phase," she said.
national care hotline: 1800-202-6868
institute of mental health's mental health helpline: 6389-2222
samaritans of singapore: 1800-221-4444
touchline: 1800-377-2252
care corner counselling centre: 6353-1180join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: an 85-year-old man was fined s$5,000 and banned from driving for a year on monday (jun 14) for colliding with a motorcyclist, leaving him with a fractured leg and dislocated toe.
khoo tea wah, who appeared in court with a walking stick, pleaded guilty to one count of causing grievous hurt by a negligent act.
he admitted to failing to give way to the 29-year-old motorcyclist while he was driving his car out from a car park at block 40, bedok south road.
the incident happened at about 11.
30am on sep 25, 2019. the court heard that khoo's wife was in the front passenger seat as he exited the car park gantry and stopped to check for oncoming vehicles.
he wanted to make a right turn into bedok south road towards bedok south avenue 1.  khoo saw the victim's motorcycle approaching in the first lane, furthest away from him, but still proceeded to make the turn even though the victim had the right of way.
khoo drove across the third and second lanes of the road.
just as he was about to enter the motorcyclist's lane, his wife said "motorbike, motorbike", asking him to stop.
however, khoo continued to drive forward and stopped only after his wife said "motorbike" a third time.
it was too late at this point and his vehicle collided into the motorcyclist.
the victim was flung off the bike and landed on his back three to four metres away.
he was taken to hospital with injuries including a knee wound, a fractured femur and a dislocated toe.
he was warded for 25 days, given more than a year's hospitalisation leave and underwent multiple surgical procedures for his wrist and thigh.
he still has follow-up appointments for his wrist injury, which he sustained on his dominant hand, and is unable to carry heavy items with it.
the prosecutor asked for the sentence that was meted out, which included the maximum fine possible.
however, she noted khoo's lack of prior convictions, his plea of guilt and his advanced age.
he had also stopped to help the victim, she said.
in mitigation, khoo pleaded for leniency.
"i have been driving for a long time and have always maintained a clean driving record," he said through an interpreter.
"i know i did wrong, and i plead guilty.
please impose a light sentence on account that i'm already advanced in age.
"he could have jailed up to two years, fined up to s$5,000, or both for causing grievous hurt by a negligent act.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

many of the offers appearing on this site are from advertisers from which this website receives compensation for being listed here.
this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear).
these offers do not represent all available deposit, investment, loan or credit products.
the g7 reached a "historic commitment" regarding the global tax system last week, part of which would seek to rectify large tech companies' corporate tax avoidance via tax havens.
see: g7 leaders support 15% minimum corporate tax agreement
find: g7 finance ministers meeting ends with heat on facebook, google and amazon with global minimum tax"we need a tax system that is fair across the world.
we endorse the historic commitment made by the g7 on 5 june," the g7 said in a statement.
"we will now continue the discussion to reach consensus on a global agreement on an equitable solution on the allocation of taxing rights and an ambitious global minimum tax of at least 15 per cent on a country-by-country basis, through the g20/oecd inclusive framework and look forward to reaching an agreement at the july meeting of g20 finance ministers and central bank governors.
with this, we have taken a significant step towards creating a fairer tax system fit for the 21st century, and reversing a 40-year race to the bottom.
our collaboration will create a stronger level playing field, and it will help raise more tax revenue to support investment and it will crack down on tax avoidance.
"tech giants who responded to the agreement include nick clegg, facebook vice president for global affairs, who said in a tweet that the company "has long called for reform of the global tax rules and we welcome the important progress made at the g7.
today's agreement is a significant first step towards certainty for businesses and strengthening public confidence in the global tax system. "
he added, "we want the international tax reform process to succeed and recognize this could mean facebook paying more tax, and in different places.
"see: companies like amazon might finally be forced to pony up taxes — what this could mean for you
find: cloud outages shut consumers out of amazon, target, paypal and moreamazon said the agreement "marks a welcome step forward" in efforts to "bring stability to the international tax system," according to cnbc.
"we hope to see discussions continue to advance with the broader g20 and inclusive framework alliance.
"treasury secretary janet yellen, who attended the g7 meeting, applauded the decision, calling it "a significant, unprecedented commitment" that "would end the race-to-the-bottom in corporate taxation, and ensure fairness for the middle class and working people in the u. s.  and around the world," according to a statement.
see: what are the world's best tax havens?
find: treasury secretary yellen confident $1.
9 trillion bill will help bring country 'back to full employment' next yearasked at a press conference whether amazon and facebook would be affected, yellen said she believes they "will qualify by almost any definition.
""and essentially what we've agreed, is that we will reallocate taxing rights for a portion of the excess or residual profits of those companies to jurisdictions where they have market activity on the basis of the distribution of that activity," she added.
more from gobankingratesevery day, get fresh ideas on how to save and make money and achieve your financial goals.
sponsored links by zergnet advertiser disclosure: many of the offers appearing on this site are from advertisers from which this website receives compensation for being listed here.
this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear).
these offers do not represent all available deposit, investment, loan or credit products.
we're here to help you live richer.
sign up to receive our daily weekday newsletter with the latest finance and lifestyle content.
for our full privacy policy, click here.
a leading-edge research firm focused on digital transformation.
good
            

subscriber
account active
            since
            
free subscriber-exclusive audiobook!
"no rules rules: netflix and the culture of reinvention"get it now on libro.
fm using the button below.
the group of 7 summit didn't just give leaders toasted marshmallows and sea shanty serenades: it also provided crucial momentum for a new tax measure that could revolutionize international taxation.
the global minimum corporate tax rate is a measure that's gained increased prominence amidst tax talks.
it would impose a non-binding minimum rate on multinational companies, a disincentive to those companies fleeing one country for another with lower taxes.
that tax could also bring in $150 billion, according to a bloomberg report which cited pascal saint-amans, who directs the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd)'s center for tax policy.
presumably speaking about an annual figure, saint-amans told the french channel bfm business that it is "not an anecdotal amount.
""in some ways," saint-amans said, "this is the end of the work on regulating globalization for greater tax justice. "
the figure he put forward also includes "a revised version of existing us measures on taxing foreign profits known as gilti," according to bloomberg.
the g7 summit represented a major diplomatic and political step forward for the tax measures, as leaders agreed to a minimum rate of at least 15%.
that's what the us had reportedly proposed, a rate lower than the anticipated proposal of 21%, but still in line with the treasury department's proposal.
saint-amans also addressed concerns that companies like amazon could dodge the tax due to low profit margins, saying that the oecd would specifically look at its higher-margin cloud services.
big tech companies and governments are already lining up behind the measure, lauding the historical step.
but there's still a long road ahead before it's enacted.
the measure will go to the g20 next, and then to the oecd.
countries like the us would also have to craft legislation to officially enact the tax once it's agreed upon, which may prove tricky.
as insider previously reported, the gop's likely opposition to the measure could potentially sink it.
"why would we want to commit to doubling our global minimum tax?
that's a very bad policy," sen.  pat toomey, the ranking republican on the senate banking committee, previously told insider.
there's already domestic partisan turmoil over proposed changes to us tax law.
president joe biden wants to raise the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28% to offset infrastructure spending, a proposal that's already drawn republican resistance.
that increase is a red-line for the gop.
but, according to the figure cited by saint-amans, leaving behind the global minimum proposal could also leave billions of dollars in potential revenue behind.
jerusalem: the first israeli government in 12 years not led by benjamin netanyahu got down to business on monday (jun 14), with the former prime minister shying away from a handover ceremony with successor naftali bennett.
the right-wing leader's record run in office ended on sunday with parliament approving, by a razor-thin majority of 60-59, a new administration led by bennett, a nationalist whose views mirror netanyahu's on many issues.
in tel aviv, thousands turned out to welcome the result, after four inconclusive elections in two years.
"i am here celebrating the end of an era in israel," said erez biezuner in rabin square.
"we want them to succeed and to unite us again," he added, as flag-waving supporters of the new government sang and danced around him.
a combative netanyahu, 71, said that he would be back sooner than expected.
"if we are destined to go into the opposition, we will do so with our heads held high until we can topple it," he told parliament before bennett was sworn in.
the traditional handover ceremony was not scheduled at the prime minister's office, where netanyahu was expected to meet bennett later on monday to brief him on state matters.
the last time netanyahu was unseated as israel's leader, in 1999, he ended his first term in office with a glass of wine in his hand and affable words of welcome to then labor party leader ehud barak, who defeated him at the polls.
"sour, grumpy, not stately – trump-like until the final moment," yossi verter, a political affairs commentator, wrote in the left-leaning haaretz newspaper.
asked why there would be no such scene now, topaz luk, a senior aide to netanyahu, told army radio: "that's just what happens.
"netanyahu, he said, was "filled with motivation to topple this dangerous government as quickly as possible".
luk declined to disclose netanyahu's comeback strategy, pointing only to the new administration's slim margin of support in parliament.
luk said that the incoming government was receiving briefings from netanyahu's diplomatic and security advisers to ensure an orderly handover.
after holding its first meeting late on sunday, bennett's new cabinet was invited for a traditional group photograph, showcasing incoming governments, at the official residence of president reuven rivlin.
unseating netanyahuwith little in common other than a desire to unseat netanyahu, the patchwork coalition of right-wing, centrist, left-wing and arab parties largely plans to avoid sweeping moves on hot-button issues such as policy towards the palestinians, and to focus instead on domestic reforms.
palestinians were unmoved by the change of administration, predicting that bennett, a former defence chief who advocates annexing parts of the occupied west bank, would pursue the same right-wing agenda as netanyahu.
under the coalition deal, bennett, a 49-year-old orthodox jew and high-tech millionaire, will be replaced as prime minister in 2023 by centrist yair lapid, 57, a popular former television host.
united states president joe biden congratulated bennett and lapid, saying he looked forward to strengthening the "close and enduring" relationship between the two countries.
addressing parliament on sunday, bennett put biden on notice that he would follow in netanyahu's footsteps in opposing any us return to the 2015 iran nuclear deal abrogated by former president donald trump.
netanyahu was israel's longest-serving leader, and had served consecutive terms as prime minister since 2009. he used his global stature to resist calls for palestinian statehood, describing it as a danger to israel's security.
he sought to bypass the palestinian issue by forging diplomatic deals with regional arab states, on the back of shared fears of iran and its nuclear programme.
but he was a divisive figure at home and abroad, weakened by repeated failure to clinch a decisive election victory, and by a corruption trial in which he has denied any wrongdoing.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
yangon • the trial of deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi started yesterday, more than four months after a military coup, with junta witnesses testifying that the nobel peace laureate flouted coronavirus restrictions and illegally imported walkie-talkies.
near daily protests have rocked myanmar since the feb 1 coup.
the mass uprising has been met with a brutal military crackdown that has killed more than 850 civilians, said a local monitoring group.
the junta has brought an eclectic raft of charges against ms suu kyi, including claims that she accepted illegal payments of gold and violated a colonial-era secrecy law.
the court yesterday heard a major from the police force testify that ms suu kyi, 75, broke coronavirus restrictions during last year's elections that her national league for democracy (nld) party won in a landslide, her lawyer min min soe told afp.
another police major testified on separate charges accusing her of illegally importing and possessing walkie-talkies, she added.
ms suu kyi "paid keen attention" throughout the hearing, another member of her legal team, khin maung zaw said in a statement.
journalists were barred from the proceedings in the special court in the capital naypyitaw, but an afp reporter said there was a heavy police presence outside.
ms suu kyi's lawyers who have struggled to gain access to their client have said they expect the trial to wrap up by july 26.
"we are hoping for the best but prepared for the worst," khin maung zaw said ahead of the hearing.
a separate trial is scheduled to start today over sedition charges she faces alongside ousted president win myint and another senior member of the nld.
if convicted of all charges, ms suu kyi faces more than a decade in jail.
last thursday, she was hit with additional corruption charges over claims that she illegally accepted us$600,000 (s$796,000) in cash and around 11kg of gold.
her lawyer khin maung zaw has dismissed the new charges which could see ms suu kyi hit with another lengthy prison term as "absurd".
meanwhile, the former head of myanmar's covid-19 immunisation programme has been arrested and faces charges of high treason for colluding with opponents of the military authorities, state media reported yesterday.
myanmar's healthcare system and coronavirus prevention measures have collapsed since the army seized power on feb 1. on sunday, reported covid-19 cases surged to their highest since shortly after the coup.
doctors and other medical workers have been at the forefront of a civil disobedience movement (cdm), leading strikes that have paralysed official and private business.
dozens have been arrested and hundreds more are wanted.
the global new light of myanmar said dr htar htar lin had been arrested last thursday, and she was also accused of working with the underground national unity government (nug).
"according to her confession, she not only joined the cdm and formed the cdm core group together with other cdm doctors and staff but also colluded with terrorist nug," it said.
separately, a united states journalist detained in myanmar since march was released yesterday, after charges against him were dropped, his lawyer said.
us citizen nathan maung "was released this morning from insein prison as the police withdrew the charges against him", and was to fly back to the us today, his lawyer tin zar oo told afp.
she said that mr maung, who founded local outlet kamayut media, had faced charges under a colonial-era law that criminalises encouraging dissent against the military.
agence france-presse, reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
diver said he thought of his wife and kids while he was stuck inside the whale's mouthfind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilea lobster diver who survived being engulfed by a whale recounted his wild life – in which he has survived a plane crash and found a dead body – during a reddit "ask me anything".
users on the site spoke with michael packard, a fisherman who wound up inside the mouth of a humpback whale while diving for lobster last friday.
mr packard's son facilitated the discussion.
mr packard said it was totally dark inside the creature's mouth, and said the whale used its head and tongue to dislodge him from its mouth.
he insists the whale could not have swallowed him fully, even if it wanted to.
however, he said he could have still died regardless, as he could have suffocated inside the mouth or drowned, as he momentarily lost his diving regulator.
mr packard said he was trapped in the whale's mouth for between 30 and 40 seconds, and said he was "almost convinced i was going to die that day".
he said it is not unusual for him to run into whales while diving, but said in most cases the animals keep their distance.
he was taken to the hospital, after the incident, and suffered soft tissue damage from the blunt force of the whale's mouth, which he said he could feel clamping down on his leg.
mr packard recalled having numerous visits while he was at the hospital from doctors and nurses asking him about the whale experience, including one nurse who came in with a notepad and asked him for lottery numbers.
during the chat, the diver revealed that being nearly eaten by a whale is only one in a line of exceptional experiences he's had.
"a while back, i encountered the corpse of a missing person while diving," he said.
"that is definitely up there with the crazy stories.
"he said the body he found was being sought by investigators as part of an active missing person case.
the diver also revealed that he had survived a plane crash in costa rica.
in 2001, mr packard and seven others were in a small plane when it crashed in costa rica, killing three of the passengers.
doctors who treated the survivors – including mr packard, who had sustained injuries to his chest – said they would not have survived another night at their crash site due to the injuries they sustained.
noting the cinematic series of misadventures the diver has had, reddit users asked him who he would want to play him in a movie about his life.
mr packard said he would prefer matt damon, though his wife insists that sean penn take the role.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliesscreengrabwant to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
washington: the chinese scientist at the centre of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialised lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fuelled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones, including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans, in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells".
but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    monday, 14 jun 2021
                gojek will also introduce a payout of sg$3 to drivers who have to drive 3km or more to pick-up their passenger, among other measures.
— kelvin chng/st photosingapore: ride-hailing operator gojek will halve the commission it receives from its drivers from june 21 till at least the end-2022, in order to help them increase their earnings.
this means gojek drivers will get to keep 90% of the fare from every trip, instead of 80%.
the move comes after grab, the dominant ride-hailing operator here, said it would seek to improve drivers' earnings by introducing a sg$1 fare hike from this month.
gojek said on monday (june 14) that the cut in commission, which it refers to as service fees, will help to lessen the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on its drivers.
it said a survey it conducted found that 50% of drivers want lower service fees for better earnings.
gojek will also introduce a payout of sg$3 (rm9.
30) to drivers who have to drive 3km or more to pick-up their passenger, among other measures.
its general manager, lien choong luen, said: "the ongoing impact of the pandemic is a consistent worry for our driver-partners as they try to sustain their earnings amidst the uncertainty.
""these measures will have a profound impact on the livelihoods of our driver-partners, increasing their take-home earnings while giving them more flexibility by reducing their dependence on incentives," he added.
gojek said the changes reflect a significant investment in singapore, as it seeks to grow its market share here.
it also said that a recent campaign to provide free or discounted rides to and from vaccination sites for all riders in singapore has registered 117,500 rides so far.
several drivers have been calling for ride-hailing operators to cut their commissions to help drivers tide over the impact of the pandemic.
while grab has not announced a cut of its 20% commission rate, it said last month that it will permanently raise fares by sg$1 (rm3.
10) from this month to improve driver earnings amid rising fuel and maintenance costs.
it will not collect commission on the additional sg$1 from june 1 to june 30.  this means drivers will get sg$1 more for every ride they complete with grab for a month.
– the straits times (singapore)/asia news networkrelated stories:indonesian bts 'army' initiate fundraising for gojek drivers, goes viral with generous tipsbts fans in indonesia raised rm44,000 for food delivery ridersgojek to begin car-hailing services in vietnam

topic:



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from today, which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening today will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post yesterday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement yesterday.
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till tomorrow by helping f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13.  the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms, as well as 20 per cent of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from today, some covid-19 restrictions will also be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in at eateries will be allowed only from next monday, provided that the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support, even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being re-introduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year, to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy, so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign boosted its sales and social media presence, slake is now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
"we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
with hospitals pushed to the limit, good samaritans have stepped forward to save lives.
but beating the second wave — and preventing a third — will take a lot more, experts tell the programme insight.
mumbai: people feared they would die if they stepped out of their homes.
in the streets, people were weeping beside the dead.
oxygen and hospital beds were in dire shortage.
as new cases in india exceeded 400,000 and deaths exceeded 4,000 on some days last month, even the rich and connected were not spared from the devastating second wave of the covid-19 pandemic.
but the virus did not kill the spirit of generosity.
in mumbai, kidney dialysis patient rozy saldhana and her husband had basic medical facilities including an oxygen cylinder set up at home for emergencies.
despite her kidney failure, the 52-year-old did not hesitate to give the cylinder to someone else who needed it.
her husband, pascol, had received a call from his friend, a school principal.
the husband of a teacher needed oxygen but could not get hold of a cylinder.
watch: in india, dialysis patient saves dying covid-19 victims (3:22)when saldhana — who has been on dialysis for five years — heard about it, she told her husband to give their cylinder to the man.
"don't worry about me.
i'm fit enough," her husband recollected her saying.
she did not stop there.
she told her husband to sell all her jewellery and buy oxygen to help more people.
he received 80,000 rupees (s$1,450) from the sale and did as his wife had asked.
over in delhi, a sikh voluntary organisation called khalsa help international has set up makeshift hospital facilities in several locations to treat patients.
its free oxygen support service has saved thousands of lives since late april.
its founder, gurpreet singh rummy, said the group has not refused anyone.
it has served more than 15,000 people, of whom around 8,000 to 10,000 had arrived in a critical state and would have died without oxygen support, he said.
"whether you're coming in a rickshaw or a mercedes-benz, we treat all equally.
our only priority is the level of oxygen," he told theprogramme insight.
we don't discriminate on the basis of religion, caste, creed or if one is rich or poor.
our service is for everyone.
while getting supplies is not easy, he told reuters that the organisation's volunteers "travel hundreds of kilometres" to fetch oxygen, and "you can't expect such zeal from most government bodies".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the path to catastrophehealthcare experts said a highly transmissible strain, complacency and large gatherings were among the reasons behind the second wave.
last year, india was quick to impose a lockdown from late march.
while it caused suffering to migrant workers within the country, it helped contain case numbers, noted rajesh parikh, the director of medical research at jaslok hospital, one of mumbai's top hospitals.
but india failed to take advantage of the respite to ramp up facilities and oxygen production, he said.
from october, most safety protocols had been abandoned, and millions of people travelled between states.
large gatherings in the form of diwali celebrations and weddings made a comeback.
"one of the confounding factors in the second wave has been large gatherings, whether it's for the kumbha mela, a religious gathering, or the political rallies which occurred throughout west bengal," said parikh.
these "undoubtedly" amplified the second wave.
the authorities also incorrectly estimated that india's population had "possibly acquired herd immunity", cited k srinath reddy, the president of the public health foundation of india.
antibody surveys were done in a "patchy" and "piecemeal" fashion across the country, with "markedly varying results", noted the professor.
the best results showed widespread detection of antibodies, hence the belief that "most of india" had herd immunity.
"the public wanted to believe it.
the businessmen wanted to believe it because they wanted to put the economy back on the rails.
the small traders wanted to believe it because they'd suffered a lot," said the cardiologist and epidemiologist.
"the politicians wanted to believe it because they wanted to go back to election rallies .
.
.
even people who wanted to organise religious festivals wanted to believe that good news, because that's their business as well.
"watch: the full episode — india's covid catastrophe: what went wrong?
(48:05)meanwhile, a new viral strain — called the delta variant, or b.
1.
617 previously — emerged and spread more quickly than doctors expected.
"we've seen that (if) even one person in the family is infected, the entire household comes down with the infection in the next 10 or 12 days," said mumbai-based infectious diseases expert trupti gilada-baheti.
vaccination a matter of urgencythe outcome is immeasurable grief across india.
pune resident arun gaikwad, a 47-year-old indian air force officer, lost his wife and half her family in the span of 15 days in march and april.
they had held prayers for his late father-in-law, and one of his brothers-in-law had a cold.
in the following days, nearly everyone who had gathered, including gaikwad's teenage daughter and son, tested positive for covid-19.
when his wife developed breathing difficulties, he rushed to several hospitals before locating one 40 kilometres away with a ventilator bed available.
two days after she was admitted, she died of cardiac arrest.
two brothers-in-law and his mother-in-law also died.
new cases have declined since last month after lockdowns were imposed.
but to prevent a resurgence, doctors say the country must urgently vaccinate its people.
in a population of over 1.
3 billion people, over 240 million doses of vaccine have been administered so far.
india must ensure that there are enough vaccines and ramp up its vaccination drive in both cities and villages, said gilada-baheti, who works at the unison medicare and research centre.
"to keep ourselves from a very disastrous third wave, we'll have to vaccinate a substantial number of a population at phenomenal speed," said the doctor, who is also a consultant at prince aly khan hospital and at masina hospital.
effective control measures would also ease the mental strain on healthcare professionals.
"every day in the ward or the icu is like a battle," said gilada-baheti.
"every day we see victories, and we see losses .
.
.
it's heartbreaking.
"watch this episode ofinsight here.
the programme airs on thursdays at 9pm.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a former part-time taxi driver was sentenced on monday (june 14) to 13 months' jail for molesting a female passenger in 2019. in april this year, district judge john ng convicted haji mohamed yusoof a.  p.  m.  adam, now 56, of one count of molestation following a trial.
the 30-year-old victim cannot be named due to a gag order to protect her identity.
lawyer raphael louis, who represents yusoof, earlier told the straits times that his client is a truck driver who was a part-time taxi driver at the time of the offence.
he added that yusoof is no longer holding that part-time job.
during the trial, the court heard that after a drinking session with friends, the woman boarded the taxi on jan 5, 2019, before she fell asleep in the rear seat.
deputy public prosecutor (dpp) benedict chan stated in his submissions that yusoof molested the victim after the taxi arrived at a carpark in lorong ah soo near upper paya lebar road at around 5.
20am.
the dpp added that the woman woke up and shouted at yusoof after feeling his hands on her body.
yusoof then returned to the driver's seat and dropped her off at her intended destination a short distance away, said dpp chan.
the woman later lodged a police report, the court heard.
yusoof claimed that he did not touch the victim, saying he tried to wake her up by calling out to her after the taxi reached the carpark.
he also stated that he later alighted from the vehicle, opened the rear passenger door and called out to her again.
she then woke up, he claimed.
in delivering his verdict in april, judge ng noted that yusoof and the woman had given different accounts of the incident.
there were also no other witnesses present.
the judge found the woman to be a truthful witness and that her evidence was cogent and reliable.
he, however, found that yusoof was evasive.
on monday, the court heard that yusoof intends to appeal against his conviction and sentence.
his bail has been set at $10,000.
offenders convicted of molestation can be jailed for up to two years and fined or caned.
yusoof cannot be caned because he is over 50 years old.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on sunday (13 june) confirmed 13 new cases of covid-19 infection in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,276. of the new cases, 10 are community transmissions with eight linked to past cases, said moh in a news release.
five of the community cases have already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance.
the remaining two community cases are unlinked.
there are no new cases from the migrant worker dormitories.
moh also reported three imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice since their arrival in singapore.
of the 13 new cases, seven are asymptomatic, and were detected from screening and surveillance, while six were symptomatic.
overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 116 cases in the week before to 36 cases in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has also fallen from 17 cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week.
the two unlinked cases are a 23-year-old fully vaccinated male india national who works as a nursing aide at all saints home (hougang) and a 27-year-old male india national who works as an engineer at ecoxplore.
the latter case is the source of a new cluster named after his case number.
there are four cases linked to the new cluster.
they are:a 50-year-old bangladeshi man who is employed by theng liang lee services as a conservancy worker at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre.
a 72-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and works at a sundry shop at the location.
a 67-year-old singaporean woman who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
a 65-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
the food centre is closed to all members of the public for three days from sunday to 15 june, as moh's epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
all staff and tenants who have been working at the location from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine.
in order to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission, moh will conduct special testing operations for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
moh will also extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june.
there are two new cases linked to the cluster, named after the case number of the 27-year-old male india national who works at ecoxplore.
they are a 19-year-old singaporean woman who works as a warehouse assistant at dhl express (singapore) and a 39-year-old singaporean woman who is employed by cleen first services as a cleaner at emerald park condominium.
both are household contacts and family members to each another.
they are household contacts of the male india national.
two cases are linked and not part of a cluster.
one of them is a 59-year-old singaporean woman who works as a part-time cleaner at crystal lodge and is a close contact of a previous case.
the other is a 66-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree, and a family member of a previous case.
of the three imported cases, two are singapore permanent residents who returned from india, and one is a work permit holder who arrived from indonesia and is a foreign domestic worker.
with 31 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on sunday, 61,869 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 130 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 243 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 80 confirmed cases reported from 7 to 13 june, 44 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 27 have tested negative, and nine serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
a us army special forces veteran and his son pleaded guilty in tokyo on monday to charges that they illegally helped former nissan motor co ltd chairman carlos ghosn flee japan.
a united states army special forces veteran and his son have pleaded guilty in tokyo to charges that they illegally helped former nissan motor co ltd chairman carlos ghosn flee japan hidden in a box on board a private jet in december 2019. chief judge hideo nirei, one of the three judges presiding over their first court appearance, on monday asked michael taylor and his son peter whether there was any mistake in the charges submitted by the tokyo prosecutors' office.
"no your honour," the older taylor replied.
"no," said his son.
extradited to japan from the us in march, they are being held at the same jail in tokyo where ghosn was imprisoned.
they could face up to three years in prison.
wearing black jackets and pants, white shirts and plastic slippers, the duo were led into the court with ropes threaded through handcuffs and tied around their waists.
prosecutors accused them of helping ghosn evade punishment and escape to lebanon from western japan's kansai airport, receiving $1.
3m for their services, some of which was paid to an advertising company owned by the younger taylor.
the americans asked ghosn for another $500,000 for legal fees after japan sought their arrest, prosecutors said.
they also described the younger taylor as a frequent visitor to lebanon and said planning for the escape began about six months before ghosn fled.
their statement also said ghosn's wife carole sought help from michael taylor, with ghosn later contacting him from tokyo with a phone he had hidden from the japanese authorities.
a third man, george-antoine zayek, recruited by the taylors, travelled to japan later in 2019 to find a way through airport security, settling on the private jet terminal at kansai airport as the best route out, the prosecutors said.
zayek remains at large.
the luggage that does not fit through the security scanning machine there is inspected by hand.
that check, however, can be waived by the pilot.
the taylors' lawyers in the us waged a months-long battle to prevent their extradition to japan, arguing they could not be prosecuted for helping someone "bail jump" and that they could face relentless interrogations and torture.
suspects in japan are interrogated in the absence of their lawyers and are often denied bail before trial.
japan's conviction rate is 99 percent.
at the time of ghosn's escape, he was awaiting trial on charges that he understated his compensation in nissan's financial statements by 9.
3 billion yen ($85m) over a decade and enriched himself at his employer's expense through payments to car dealerships.
ghosn – who denies any wrongdoing – remains a fugitive in his childhood home, lebanon, which has no extradition treaty with japan.
greg kelly, a former nissan executive charged with helping ghosn hide his earnings, is also standing trial in tokyo.
he denies the charges against him.
the taylors will make their next appearance in court, the same room where kelly's trial is being held, on june 29, when their lawyers will deliver a statement and the americans will be cross-examined.
father-son duo hoped biden administration would block extradition, but us authorities handed them over.
former top lawyer says he was surveilled and demoted after he questioned the probe, bloomberg reports.
a dutch court rejected the fugitive former auto chief's wrongful dismissal claim against nissan-mitsubishi.
on monday morning, a delegation of french investigators began questioning carlos ghosn, the former chairman of renault.
we use cookies to give you the best possible experience.
learn more about how we use cookies.
by clicking 'accept' you agree to these cookies.
to decline, click here.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jakarta jakarta governor anies baswedan has warned that the indonesian capital may return to a strict restriction regime as coronavirus cases surged 50 per cent in the past week amid a rise of infections of the delta variant.
active cases in jakarta rose to 17,400 cases on sunday (june 13) from 11,500 on june 6.
"the capital is in a state that needs extra attention.
if the current situation gets out of hand, we would enter an emergency phase, and if that happened, we would have to take drastic steps like we did in september and february.
we do not want that to recur," mr anies said in a statement on monday morning.
the delta variant, first detected in india, has started to dominate cases in indonesian cities, with health minister budi gunadi sadikin confirming that covid-19 cases in jakarta, kudus (central java province), and bangkalan (east java province) are dominated by the delta variant, based on genome sequencing tests.
bed occupancy rate for isolation wards in jakarta reserved to treat covid-19 patients also increased to 75 per cent on sunday, from 45 per cent a week ago.
one out of four covid-19 patients in jakarta, however comes from outside the city, mostly the surrounding satellite towns.
mr anies urged residents to strictly comply with health protocols in order to avoid another round of strict social distancing restrictions.
currently, dining in eateries is allowed with limited capacity, and non-essential staff are partially required to work from home.
the governor also stressed that the positivity rate in jakarta increased to 17 per cent on sunday, from 9 per cent the previous week.
the positivity rate indicates the percentage of positive covid-19 cases detected out of the total tests conducted.
the threshold set by the world health organisation (who) for adequate testing is a 5 per cent positivity rate.
mr anies pointed out that the testing rate in jakarta rose to eight times what the world health organisation recommended, from four times in the previous week.
he ordered all his personnel on sunday night to take stricter measures and to step up enforcement of the health protocols on individuals as well as in places.
to ensure that residents comply with the strict health protocols, president joko widodo on monday decided to beef up the deployment of military and police officers across 7,000 sub-regencies in the country.
indonesia's 34 provinces are made up of more than 500 regencies and cities, which in turn consist of 7,000 sub-regencies.
mr widodo also decided to speed up daily vaccination rate from the current 500,000 doses a day to 700,000 later this month and then one million next month.
people living in covid-19 red zones – places with hospital bed occupancy ratio exceeding 60 per cent – will get priority in vaccination, said mr budi, following a meeting with the president.
in addition, places of worship in the covid-19 red zones will be closed for the next two weeks.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

britain's foreign secretary dominic raab on the sidelines of g7 summit in carbis bay, cornwall, britain, june 11, 2021
  | photo credit: 
reuters
  world leaders gathered at the g7 summit in cornwall discussed the possibility that a laboratory leak in central china's wuhan city may have a connection with the start of the covid-19 pandemic, with the world health organisation (who) chief saying all hypotheses behind the origins of the deadly disease remain in play.
uk foreign secretary dominic raab said that officials "compared notes" over the theory that the pandemic may have originated from a leak from a lab in wuhan, calling for further investigations.
however, he asserted that the uk's "best information" remained that it "jumped" from animals to humans but admitted they did not have "all the answers".
"that's why internationally we wanted the review to be able to go into china to get all the answers, so that we have the full picture rather than these possible, potential, plausible options," mr raab told 'sky news' on sunday when asked about the issue.
"but, on balance, we do not believe that it came from a laboratory.
we think it is much more likely to have jumped from animal species," he said.
who director-general dr tedros adhanom ghebreyesus told reporters on saturday that the theory was raised during a formal session at the g7 summit in cornwall dedicated to health matters and that identifying the source of the pandemic was a core part of showing respect to the millions of people around the globe who have died from the deadly virus.
"yes, it was raised, and we discussed about the origins," he said in response to a question.
"the first phase of the origin study was not conclusive so there are four hypotheses, but [it's] not conclusive yet.
so we believe that all four hypotheses should be open, and we need to proceed with the second phase, to really know the origins," said dr ghebreyesus.
"as you know, more than 174 million people have been confirmed for covid illness.
this is actually an underestimate, it could be more.
and so far, close to 3.
75 million people have died.
this is very tragic and i think the respect these people deserve is knowing what the origin of this virus is so that we can prevent it from happening again," he said, stressing on the importance of "cooperation from the chinese side".
the origins of the covid-19 remain a widely debated topic, with some scientists and politicians maintaining that the possibility of a lab leak of the deadly virus exists.
china's wuhan institute of virology (wiv) is near the outbreak's known epicentre of huanan seafood market in wuhan, where the virus first emerged in late 2019 and became a pandemic.
more than 175 million confirmed cases have since been confirmed worldwide and at least 3.
79 million deaths reported.
china has been accused of withholding raw data and access to sites that would aid deeper investigation into how the virus came into being, and how it first spread.
scientists believe that the virus is likely to have passed from animals to humans, but there remains a possibility that it may have escaped from the wuhan institute of virology, which investigates other coronaviruses.
us president joe biden last month directed the country's intelligence agencies to report in the next three months on whether covid-19 emerged from an animal or during a laboratory accident.
however, beijing has maintained there is no connection between the pandemic origins and the wuhan lab and sought to dismiss the issue of a possible leak as an "absurd story".
china asserts that the covid-19 broke out in different places in the world and china only reported the virus first.
our code of editorial valuesplease enter a valid email address.
printable version | jun 15, 2021 9:38:53 am | https://www.
thehindu.
com/news/international/g7-leaders-discuss-wuhan-lab-leak-theory-behind-covid-19-pandemic/article34804805.
ece

© thg publishing pvt ltd. 

a video on the protests in budapest against the building of a fudan university campus in the city

diplomatic affairs editor suhasini haidar discusses what led to the country's current vaccine crisis
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore seven men aged between 15 and 29 were arrested on saturday (june 12) for rioting armed with a deadly weapon.
five will be charged in court on monday.
they were involved in a fight last friday night where three young people were attacked in jalan bukit merah.
one of the men is suspected to have attacked the victims with a karambit knife, police said on sunday.
two victims, aged 14 and 15, were taken to hospital.
a karambit knife recovered from one of the men was also seized.
police investigations are ongoing.
preliminary investigations revealed that the three victims are known to the assailants and they were allegedly attacked due to a dispute.
the offence of rioting armed with a deadly weapon carries a jail term of up to 10 years, as well as caning.
"the police will not tolerate such brazen acts of violence and blatant disregard of the law," said the police in a statement.
"we will spare no effort to apprehend such offenders and deal with them in accordance with the law.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
when spice shop owner jeya seelan saw security camera footage of a man stealing $800 from the till, he decided that he was not going to tarnish the culprit's reputation.
that was why he used a blurry photo that obscured the man's face when he posted on his facebook account asking the thief to return the money, even though he was upset and angry.
in a phone interview with the straits times, mr jeya said: "it was just heartbreaking and shocking.
if you think about all the hard work that went into earning that money, and one guy suddenly comes in to steal it in a flash, it is devastating.
"mr jeya also opted not to make a police report for the same reason to avoid harming the man's reputation.
the decision was not a popular one.
he said: "i was under a lot of pressure.
many people, including my wife, said making a police report was the right thing to do.
people on facebook asked me to report him as well.
they said a leopard can never change its spots.
"but times are tough for everybody and some people could have lost their jobs.
everyone is fighting their own battles.
"mr jeya, 31, is the owner of jeya spices at block 294 yishun street 22.  he also has a stall at the fairprice xtra supermarket at parkway parade.
the theft took place at the yishun shop at about noon on june 3.  at the time, two of mr jeya's employees were looking after the shop while he was away on course.
one of them had gone to the toilet and the other was attending to a customer.
that was when a man walked by and swiped about $800 from a plastic box where the money was kept.
the shop sells custom-made spice blends and condiments, and mr jeya said he started working there in 2014 two months after graduating from nanyang technological university's wee kim wee school of communication and information.
he was initially indifferent to joining the business, which was started by his grandfather 60 years ago.
but when his father asked him if he wanted to work there, he said yes.
"i was just sitting idle at home so i thought, why not give it a go?
"the first two days of work were tough, he said, but soon, he was hooked.
he was drawn in particular to custom-blended spices, which are slowly falling out of favour.
mr jeya is keen to revive their popularity.
mr jeya, who has no children, lives in ang mo kio with his wife, who works as a relationship manager in standard chartered bank.
yishun is close to mr jeya's heart, and he thinks of his customers there as family.
that was one reason he was not keen to go to the police when he discovered the theft, choosing instead to rely on facebook to get the thief to return the money.
he said: "yishun is a close-knit community where everybody knows each other.
a lot of my friends and customers in the neighbourhood helped by sharing the facebook post.
they were also angry and gave me emotional support.
"the day after the theft, on june 4, a friend of the man who took the money sent mr jeya a text message at about 6pm.
the next day, he came with the thief to return the money.
mr jeya said: "we like to say 'bila bila yishun', which means 'yishun forever' in malay.
we have a spirit of helping one another.
people say the kampung spirit is dying, but i do not believe that is true.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
hong kong (ap) — the french joint operator of a chinese nuclear plant near hong kong said monday that the plant is dealing with a "performance issue" but is currently operating within safety limits, following a report of a potential radioactive leak.
the taishan nuclear power plant is jointly owned by china guangdong nuclear power group and french multinational electric utility électricité de france, the main owner of framotome, which helps operate the plant.
"framatome is supporting resolution of a performance issue with the taishan nuclear power plant in guangdong province, china," framatome said in a short statement monday.
"according to the data available, the plant is operating within the safety parameters," it said.
"our team is working with relevant experts to assess the situation and propose solutions to address any potential issue.
"radiation levels in hong kong, 135 kilometers (85 miles) from the taishan plant, were normal on monday, according to the hong kong observatory, which monitors radiation around the city.
cnn reported monday that framotome had written to the u. s.  department of energy warning of an "imminent radiological threat" and accusing chinese authorities of raising acceptable limits for radiation outside the plant to avoid having to shut it down.
cnn said u. s.  officials believed the current situation at the plant did not present a severe safety threat.
électricité de france said in a statement monday that it had been informed of the increase in concentration of "certain rare gases" in the primary circuit of reactor no.
1 at the taishan plant.
"the presence of certain rare gases in the primary circuit is a known phenomenon, studied and foreseen by the operating procedures of the reactors," it said.
the utility said it is providing its expertise and has requested that the joint venture company that runs the plant hold a meeting of its board of directors so that management "presents all the data and the necessary decisions.
"chinese authorities in beijing and guangdong did not immediately respond to attempts to seek comment on monday, a public holiday.
the plant issued a statement on sunday saying "at present, continuous monitoring of environmental data shows that the environmental indicators of taishan nuclear power plant and its surroundings are normal.
"it did not refer to any problems, and said "all operating indicators of the two units have met the requirements of nuclear safety regulations and power plant technical specifications.
"the united nation's nuclear watchdog, the international atomic energy agency, told the associated press that it was aware of the media reports and was in contact with its counterpart in china.
"at this stage, the agency has no indication that a radiological incident occurred," the vienna-based iaea said in a written response to questions.
the agency said it would share more information when it became available.
the two reactors entered commercial operation in december 2018 and september 2019, the local city government said on its website.
they are the first of a new type called european pressurized reactors to become operational in the world.
construction began earlier on two other eprs in finland and france, but they continue to face costly delays.
___associated press writer angela charlton in paris contributed to this report.
an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
singapore: singapore will allow travellers from israel to serve part of their 21-day stay-home notice at a place of residence, the ministry of health (moh) said on monday (jun 14).
currently, travellers from israel must spend the entirety of their 21-day stay-home notice at a dedicated facility.
given the improving situation in israel, travellers who have remained in the country for 21 days before arriving in singapore will be allowed to spend the last seven days of their 21-day stay-home notice at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation, said moh.
this measure will take effect for travellers from israel who arrive in singapore from 11.
59pm on jun 16. the health ministry on monday also updated singapore's border measures for travellers from fiji.
"given the worsening situation in fiji, we will be tightening border measures for travellers from fiji" with immediate effect, said moh.
all travellers who have spent time in fiji in the 21 days before arriving in singapore will be required to serve a 21-day stay-home notice at a dedicated facility.
prior to this, travellers from fiji were allowed to spend the last seven days of their stay-home notice at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.
"travellers who have not completed their 14-day stay-home notice at dedicated stay-home notice facilities by 11.
59pm on jun 16, will be required to serve the additional seven days at their current dedicated stay-home notice facility," moh said.
these travellers will be contacted regarding the additional costs to be paid, the health ministry added.
travellers who are currently serving their stay-home notice at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation will be required to complete their 21-day stay-home notice at their current location to minimise movement and risk of transmission, said moh.
all travellers serving a 21-day stay-home notice will undergo covid-19 polymerase chain reaction tests on-arrival, on day 14 of their stay-home notice and before the end of their 21-day stay-home notice period.
the health ministry said it will continue to adjust singapore's border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to the community as the global covid-19 situation evolves.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: when a security guard who worked at a secondary school came across a student's laptop in the canteen, he took it instead of returning it to its owner.
ramdas gurusamy, 61, was fined s$1,200 by a court on monday (jun 14) after making restitution to the victim.
he pleaded guilty to one count of dishonest misappropriation.
the court heard that the victim, a teenage student at anglo-chinese school (barker road), was issued a chromebook laptop along with his schoolmates.
the device came installed with a software called goguardian, which allowed the school to carry out internet filtering and to monitor the students' online activities.
it also has a function that allowed the school to determine its geolocation should it go missing.
at about 4pm on jun 27, 2017, the victim packed his things to head home but forgot his laptop and its accompanying bag.
he discovered this at about 7pm.
his mother contacted the school and they checked the canteen the next day, but the laptop and its bag could not be found.
the victim's mother lodged a police report on jul 3, 2017. investigations revealed that ramdas was doing his security rounds at the canteen past 11pm on jun 27, 2017.  that was when he took the laptop bag with the device inside.
at about 10.
30am on jul 25, 2017, the school detected activities from the laptop and traced its location to ramdas' address.
the laptop was used for purposes including searching for songs, said the state prosecutor.
ramdas made no attempt to return the laptop and its bag, worth s$542 in total, to the rightful owner or to the authorities.
the judge accepted that ramdas is remorseful and has made restitution.
however, he noted that the offence was committed when ramdas was a security guard.
instead of returning the laptop, he misappropriated it, said the judge.
for dishonest misappropriation, he could have been jailed up to two years, fined, or both.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
stay in the know with a recap of our top stories today.
1.  hong kong star karen mok comes under fire in china for wearing dolce & gabbana in music videothe studio of hong kong pop singer karen mok has been forced to issue an apology after she prompted controversy on chinese social media for.
.
.
» read more 2.
157 suspected serious reactions to covid-19 vaccine reported out of nearly 3.
7 million doses given in singapore: hsathese reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but.
.
.
» read more3.
indian village prays to 'goddess corona' to rid them of the virusdevotees in shuklapur village, in the northern state of uttar pradesh, have been offering.
.
.
» read more4.
from going viral globally for her 'broken' mandarin to dealing with creeps: tiktok creator opens up about the ups and downs of online famerather than being ashamed of her 'broken' mandarin, jessica's made it the.
.
.
» read moreeditor@asiaone.
com
singapore: the recentlandmark accord among the group of seven (g7) nationsfor new tax rules aimed at large multinational corporations (mncs) could see a reduction in  the tax advantage that singapore offers to these businesses, said experts.
but it remains too early to tell how this will impact companies' investment decisions and singapore's attractiveness as a regional and global business hub, they added.
what the deal is aboutfinance ministers from the g7 advanced economies agreed on jun 5 to back the creation of a global minimum corporate tax rate of at least 15 per cent.
they also agreed on allowing countries where an mnc's customers are based to be "awarded taxing rights of 20 per cent profit exceeding a 10 per cent margin", regardless of whether the mnc has physical presence in these markets.
this hopes to end what united states' treasury secretary janet yellen called a "race to the bottom" where countries have competed to lure corporate giants with ultra-low corporate tax rates and exemptions.
current global tax rules, which date back to the 1920s, have also been struggling with the rise of technology giants that sell services remotely and attribute much of their profits to intellectual property held in low-tax jurisdictions.
the g7 accord comes as no surprise, tax experts told cna, given that negotiations have been coordinated by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) for years on rules for taxing cross-border digital services and curbing tax base erosion.
but this is not yet a done deal.
it remains to be seen if the proposals can garner support from the world's top developed and developing countries at the group of twenty (g20) meeting in venice next month, as well as more than 130 countries under the oecd inclusive framework.
g20 member china is among countries that have voiced objections to a global minimum corporate tax rate, reuters reported on jun 10 citing people familiar with the negotiations.
given the complexities of multilateral negotiations, it may take "several years" before the new rules are implemented, said pwc singapore's tax leader chris woo.
"the entire process will likely take some time, from discussions on the technical design features, achieving political consensus, to putting in place domestic legislation and multilateral instruments to give legal effect to these rules," he added.
singapore's finance minister lawrence wong has said it remains "too early to say" how the g7's deal could impact singapore, but as and when a global consensus is reached, the authorities "will make any necessary changes" to the country's corporate tax system.
"we will continue to ensure that our tax system is compatible with international norms, while managing the administrative and compliance burden on businesses," he said in a facebook post earlier this month.
mr wong also stressed that singapore's competitiveness "has never been based on taxation alone".
"trust, reliability and integrity are ultimately what makes singapore an attractive place for substantial economic activities," he wrote.
"neutralise" any tax advantagecurrently, singapore's headline corporate tax rate is at 17 per cent but the effective tax rate of many businesses may be lower than that, or even the proposed global minimum of 15 per cent, due to tax incentives awarded to those seen as beneficial to the country's economic development.
with the proposal of a global minimum rate, "the consequence of a low effective tax rate for mncs in a particular jurisdiction is the triggering of a 'top-up tax' in the jurisdiction of its ultimate parent entity," said mr dean rolfe, kpmg's partner and head of international tax for asia-pacific.
"in view that many international businesses see singapore as an efficient gateway into asia, multinationals will be weighing the impact of the global minimum tax against the efficiency and convenience of operating from singapore to manage their regional business," he added.
mr chester wee, ey asean international corporate tax advisory leader, said: "basically, the global minimum tax proposal will neutralise any tax advantage that an mnc may secure from singapore.
"in addition, the other proposed measure to allow countries where customers are based to tax a greater share of a mnc's profits may also mean "a reduction in the tax base for singapore", he added.
"given singapore's centrally located geographical position, large mnes (multinational enterprises) have set up hubs in singapore to sell goods and services into asia-pacific.
with this profit re-allocation rule, part of the profits from such hub operations may be re-allocated to the market jurisdictions," he said.
that said, there might be a near-term boost.
pwc's mr woo reckoned that singapore "could potentially gain more corporate tax revenue if tax incentives are withdrawn" from the relevant companies once the global minimum corporate tax rate kicks in.
too early to predict impact on investments, economymr wee said these reforms in global tax rules are "creating uncertainty which may cause delays in investment decisions".
those with a presence in singapore and which are affected by the new proposed rules "can certainly be expected to re-assess their investments if singapore's tax incentives no longer present a benefit due to the 'top-up' of taxes," said mr woo.
but there might not be a "uniform response across the board" as certain investments such as those in the technology space, "are more mobile than others", he added.
"big tech can move more easily compared to manufacturing but even then, it depends on availability of a skilled workforce.
others who are seeking to apply other strategies such as the diversification of supply chains or require proximity to markets may be less inclined to move.
what companies that can afford to move will be considering is the non-tax benefits of operating in singapore and whether other measures will be doled out to attract them to remain in singapore, said mr woo.
but while there is the risk, experts told cna that singapore's long-term attractiveness to mncs around the world is unlikely to be dampened based on taxation changes alone.
cimb private bank economist song seng wun said: "singapore isn't an idyllic island under the sun where nothing goes on.
real economic activities are taking place here, with businesses setting up offices and factories because it is attractive for them to do so.
"and not because the tax incentives are attractive if it was just that, anyone can out-incentivise us.
"singapore's infrastructure, rule of law, stable political environment, as well as connectivity to regional and global economies are among the "intangibles that companies also consider beyond the dollar and cents", he added.
"because we know that businesses are in in singapore more than just tax reasons, as long as singapore's overall package remains attractive, (the new tax rules are) not a significant issue at the moment.
"echoing that, kpmg singapore's partner and head of tax ajay kumar sanganeria said "it is too early to predict overall outcomes" but singapore will remain a relevant regional hub due to benefits such as the availability of highly-trained talents, strong protection of intellectual property and its reputation as a global financial hub.
that said, the cost of doing business remains a concern for companies.
to continue attracting mncs, singapore may need to enhance support for innovation, training or other value-added activities, he added.
mr rolfe also mentioned that there is "a very large pool" of mncs that will not be impacted by the proposed global minimum rate and these mncs will continue to be attracted to singapore.
more importantly, the tax reforms do not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) as they fall beneath the expected threshold.
"smes represent the majority of economic activity in many jurisdictions and their taxation situation will not change under these proposed rules," said the kpmg tax expert.
"in summary, it is too early to identify the financial impact on singapore," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — all travellers entering singapore who have travel history in the past 21 days to fiji are required to serve a 21-day stay-home notice (shn) at dedicated shn facilities given the "worsening" covid-19 situation in the south pacific country, the ministry of health (moh) said on monday (14 june).
previously, these travellers were subject to a 21-day shn consisting of 14-day shn at dedicated shn facilities and seven days at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.
travellers who have not completed their 14-day shn at dedicated shn facilities by 16 june 2021, 11.
59pm, have to serve the additional seven days at their current dedicated shn facility.
travellers who are currently serving their shn at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation have to complete their 21-day shn at their current location to minimise risk of transmission.
meanwhile, given the "improving situation in israel", travellers from the middle eastern country who have remained in israel in the last 21 days before arrival in singapore from 16 jun 2021, 11.
59pm, will be subject to a 21-day shn comprising 14-day shn at dedicated shn facilities and seven days at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation, the moh said.
previously, all travellers from israel are subject to a 21-day shn at dedicated shn facilities.
all travellers serving 21-day shn will undergo covid-19 polymerase chain reaction tests on arrival, on the 14th day of their shn, and before the end of their 21-day shn period.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfwork-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)man, 60, charged over stabbing at choa chu kang void deckan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
(adds detail on investors, tag for pictures) singapore, june 15 (reuters) singapore-headquartered carro, a southeast asian online automotive marketplace, said on tuesday it has raised $360 million in its latest funding round led by softbank vision fund 2, becoming the region's latest unicorn.
"the valuation for the company is well over a billion dollars," ceo and founder of carro, aaron tan, told reuters.
he did not provide a specific number.
carro will use the fresh capital to expand into new locations and grow its business in its existing markets indonesia, thailand, malaysia, and singapore.
it also plans to expand its portfolio of financial services and accelerate development of artificial intelligence capabilities.
carro's platform allows consumers and wholesale businesses to buy and sell vehicles along with providing insurance and financing services.
other investors in the new round of financing include several prominent indonesian based funds including ev growth, it said.
since being founded in 2015, carro has raised more than $400 million in equity and $200 million in debt.
its previous investors include softbank ventures asia, edbi pte, insignia ventures partners and b capital group.
the company has started preparing internally for an initial public offering (ipo), tan said.
"the plan is to ipo the company, hopefully, in the next 18-24 months in the u. s. , depending on whether the market holds," he said.
while carro saw an initial decline in business due to the covid-19 pandemic, like other digital businesses, the company is now benefiting from users shifting to online transactions.
"people are more willing to buy vehicles entirely online without the need to visit a showroom," he said.
carro booked revenues of $300 million for the year ending march 2021 and has registered positive ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for two years.
(reporting by aradhana aravindan in singapore editing by ed davies) an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                one of the men is suspected to have attacked the victims with a karambit knife.
photo from singapore police force via the straits times/annsingapore, june 13 (the straits times/ann): seven men aged between 15 and 29 were arrested on saturday (june 12) for rioting armed with a deadly weapon.
five will be charged in court on monday (june 14).
they were involved in a fight last friday night where three young people were attacked in jalan bukit merah.
one of the men is suspected to have attacked the victims with a karambit knife, police said on sunday.
two victims, aged 14 and 15, were taken to hospital.
a karambit knife recovered from one of the men was also seized.
police investigations are ongoing.
preliminary investigations revealed that the three victims are known to the assailants and they were allegedly attacked due to a dispute.
the offence of rioting armed with a deadly weapon carries a jail term of up to 10 years, as well as caning.
"the police will not tolerate such brazen acts of violence and blatant disregard of the law," said the police in a statement.
"we will spare no effort to apprehend such offenders and deal with them in accordance with the law. "
the straits times/ann
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cops
                                                                ,
                                                                                                seven
                                                                ,
                                                                                                men
                                                                ,
                                                                                                arrested
                                                                ,
                                                                                                rioting
                                                                ,
                                                                                                three youngsters
                                                                ,
                                                                                                hurt



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
a graphic designer was allegedly attacked by his neighbour with a bicycle chain in the corridor of his housing board flat on saturday (june 12).
he suffered a cut to his head that needed stitches.
the victim, who wanted to be known only as mr toh, told chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao that the alleged attack occurred after he had moved his neighbour's bicycle.
the police told the new paper they were alerted to the case of dispute that happened at block 130 ang mo kio avenue 3 at about 10.
30am.
they arrested a 65-year-old man for voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon.
investigations are ongoing.
speaking to wanbao, mr toh, 47, claimed that he had moved his neighbour's bicycle that was parked next to his window so that he could climb his ladder and clean the outside of the window.
when the neighbour returned and saw that his bicycle had been moved, he allegedly pushed the bicycle with force, causing it to hit the ladder.
[[nid:515777]]shocked, mr toh turned around to ask his neighbour what was wrong.
mr toh told wanbao: "without a word, he took out a chain with a lock from the bicycle basket and started attacking me.
"the alleged attack caused mr toh to fall off the ladder and he felt severe pain on the back of his head.
he ran to a nearby unit to ask for help from a woman.
she took a towel to stem the bleeding and mr toh claimed she also stepped forward to stop the neighbour from attacking him again.
mr toh, who was in a daze, said he was concerned for the safety of his children who were in the house.
the divorcee's 14-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son were visiting him as it was the school holidays.
he said: "i was dizzy from being beaten up, but i remembered that my front door was unlocked.
"i was worried that the attacker would run into the house and hurt my children.
"fortunately, the woman living next door helped attend to my children.
"mr toh was taken to khoo teck puat hospital by the singapore civil defence force.
[[nid:532343]]wanbao reported that he needed five stitches for a 4cm wound on his head.
he was discharged on the same day.
mr toh has been living with three tenants in the unit for about two years.
he alleged that the neighbour has been spitting and throwing garbage outside his unit and that the incidents started a month after he had moved in in 2019. mr toh said: "my injury is of secondary concern.
i am more worried about how this incident will affect my children.
"this article was first published in the new paper.
permission required for reproduction.
singapore there have been 157 reports here of suspected reactions to the covid-19 vaccine severe enough to be life-threatening or result in hospitalisation, among other serious conditions.
however, no deaths have been linked to the jab, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
these "suspected serious adverse events" made up 0.
004 per cent of the almost 3.
7 million doses of pfizer-biontech and moderna jabs administered till may 23. these serious cases form part of the 4,704 "suspected adverse events reports" that hsa received till may 23. this translates into 0.
13 per cent of administered doses, which is consistent with the percentage that had been reported by the authority on may 6, when it last gave an update on the safety record of both mrna vaccines on may 6. these reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but may not have been caused by them.
an adverse event  or reaction related to vaccination is any undesirable medical condition that occurs after taking the vaccine, which does not necessarily have a direct link to the treatment.
they may be coincidental or related to an undiagnosed disease, but have to be reported by healthcare providers to hsa.
reactions are considered serious if they result in hospitalisation, disability or life-threatening illnesses, among other things.
[[nid:522094]]anaphylaxis, which is the rapid onset of severe allergic reactions, was the most frequently reported serious adverse event, with 26 such cases.
all of them recovered after medical treatment, hsa said.
it added that the incidence rate of anaphylaxis reported here with the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines is about 0.
85 cases for every 100,000 doses of the jabs administered.
"this is similar to the incidence rates reported overseas of around 0.
5 to two per 100,000 doses administered," said hsa.
other severe allergic reactions numbered 23.  these include breathing difficulty, fast heart rate, an increase or decrease in blood pressure, chest discomfort and pain, fainting, limb numbness and weakness or pain, changes in vision, increase in liver enzymes, joint pain, fits, ringing in the ears and infections.
the authority said most of those who had developed serious adverse events have recovered or are recovering.
"these serious adverse events are being closely monitored by hsa," it added.
hsa said that the most commonly reported reactions are consistent with those typically observed following vaccination.
from the 4,704 reactions, the most common one was cases of rash, which accounted for more than one in four reported adverse events.
this was followed by cases of swelling of eyelids, face or lips, which occurred in about one in seven cases.
these are typically resolved within a few days and are in line with the events described in the covid-19 vaccines product information, as well as those reported overseas.
most of adverse events were associated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine, which was rolled out for use here on dec 30 last year and comprised 83 per cent of the doses administered.
moderna was deployed on march 12 this year.
about 68 per cent of the total number of reactions reported was among people below the age of 60. hsa pointed out that trials of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines found that those younger than 60 tend to experience more adverse effects occurring soon after vaccination, compared with those older.
generally, younger people have more active immune responses and may experience more adverse effects to the vaccines, said hsa.
it pointed out that this is part of the body's natural response to build immunity against covid-19 infection.
the authority added that 64 per cent of these reactions were reported in females.
its update also noted that a greater frequency of heart attacks and strokes has not been observed in vaccinated persons locally.
this comes after it was announced on friday that six people have been reported to have suffered heart inflammation after receiving covid-19 vaccines four of whom were men aged below 30. as a precaution, experts have advised that vaccinated people, especially adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"it is important to note that heart attacks and strokes can occur naturally within our population, regardless of whether people are vaccinated or not," said hsa.
"due to the large numbers of people being vaccinated, it is expected that, by coincidence, some individuals may experience other medical events such as heart attacks and strokes in the days or weeks after vaccination which may not be related to the vaccination.
"[[nid:531770]]hsa said it is monitoring the incidence of anaphylaxis and bell's palsy, which are adverse events historically reported with vaccines.
there have been 45 reported cases of bell's palsy, which causes temporary weakness or paralysis of facial muscles.
most of the cases were not serious, hsa said, and patients will generally have completely recovery even without treatment.
the incidence rate for this reaction in singapore is estimated to be 3.
35 per 100,000 persons per month.
hsa said that this is within the background incidence of 1.
1 to 4.
4 per 100,000 persons per month before the introduction of vaccination.
the authority said that it, along with the ministry of health, will continue to monitor the safety of covid-19 vaccines closely and update the public on any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic, hsa added.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
a pop singer in hong kong was forced to apologise after wearing a dolce & gabbana bathrobe in a video for her new song, amid simmering resentment in beijing over the italian fashion house "insulting" china.
karen mok had released a video for a song on her new album the voyage in which she wore a brightly coloured robe from the italian designers.
she also used a photo of herself in the robe as her profile picture on weibo, the chinese microblogging site.
that prompted a backlash as many chinese are angry over a 2018 advertising campaign by dolce & gabbana, where a chinese model was given instructions from a male voiceover on how to use "stick-like" chopsticks to eat an oversized pizza and a© times newspapers limited 2021. registered in england no.
894646.  registered office: 1 london bridge street, se1 9gf.
singapore — a 60-year-old man was charged on monday (14 june) for allegedly stabbing another man at the void deck of a choa chu kang hdb block.
ong eng siew, a singaporean, was charged with repeatedly stabbing 52-year-old ku teck eng on saturday at block 407 choa chu kang avenue 3.  the act was allegedly committed between 9.
20 and 9.
32pm.
court documents did not state the nature of the two men's relationship or why the act was committed.
a police statement on sunday, however, said the men were known to each other.
ong appeared via videolink to receive his charge.
the prosecution applied for him to be remanded so that the case's investigation officer could bring him out to recover evidence, as well as to conduct further investigations on scene.
he will return to court on 21 june.
in its statement, the police said they were alerted to the incident at around 9.
35pm on saturday.
upon arriving at the scene, officers found ku with stab wounds.
he was conveyed to hospital while conscious.
ong fled the scene before the authorities arrived and was arrested within two hours.
those convicted of attempted murder face imprisonment for life and caning.
ong is ineligible for caning as he is over 50 years old.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:singapore reports 13 new covid-19 cases, 10 from the communitycovid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everan american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
singapore: a man was jailed for 10 months on monday (jun 14) for paying for a sex act with a 17-year-old boy, after tricking the boy into believing he was a "sugar mummy".
muhammad al-masfuiin mushin, 26, pleaded guilty to one charge of commercial sex with a minor.
the court heard that the victim began using an application called locanto in 2017.  he discovered that there were advertisements for sexual services, and users looking for "sugar mummies" or "friends with benefits".
"sugar mummy" is a term for older women who pay younger individuals for companionship that may be of a sexual nature.
the victim wanted to earn money by offering sexual services and created an account.
on jun 16, 2019, the victim was kicked out of his house after a heated argument with his mother.
as he needed money, he put up an ad seeking a sugar mummy, titling it "toyboy fantasy satisfies you 18".
he included his phone number and two photos of himself in the ad, offering sexual services in exchange for money.
the accused saw the ad a day later.
even though the victim was searching for a sugar mummy, muhammad al-masfuiin decided to pose as a woman and chat with the victim.
he began chatting with the boy on telegram, saying: "i'm looking for a young boy to be my sex slave.
"he asked the victim for photos and body statistics of himself, and told him he was female.
when muhammad al-masfuiin asked the victim for his real age, the victim replied that he was 17, had been chased out of his house and needed money.
posing as a woman, muhammad al-masfuiin asked the victim "would you have sex with my (boyfriend) and i", despite knowing there would be no woman involved.
the victim agreed and asked for s$250 per meet-up.
muhammad al-masfuiin told the victim that he could stay over, but he would have to perform sex acts on the fictitious "boyfriend".
at 1am on jun 18, 2019, muhammad al-masfuiin booked a taxi for the victim to go to muhammad al-masfuiin's house.
believing that the buyer was a woman, the victim asked if "she" would be joining the sex session.
muhammad al-masfuiin replied that she "might not", but the boyfriend "will tell me if you did a great job at sex".
the victim asked muhammad al-masfuiin if he knew the victim was 17, and muhammad al-masfuiin replied "yes", adding: "i like my boys young".
the victim got to muhammad al-masfuiin's home.
he took a shower on muhammad al-masfuiin's instruction and came out of the bathroom to see muhammad al-masfuiin performing a sex act.
muhammad al-masfuiin then performed a sex act on the victim before asking him for sex.
the victim resisted, but muhammad al-masfuiin was of a bigger build than him.
before muhammad al-masfuiin could initiate sex, he ejaculated.
the victim got dressed and went to sleep and texted the accused's number, thinking it belonged to a woman, telling "her" that the sex session was completed.
the next morning, the victim woke up and asked muhammad al-masfuiin for money to get to work.
muhammad al-masfuiin gave him s$50 and the victim left.
later that day, a police officer on foot patrol in toa payoh came across the victim.
in the course of investigations, he found messages in the victim's phone pertaining to the provision of sexual services.
court documents did not specify why the victim was stopped by police.
muhammad al-masfuiin was identified and arrested for commercial sex with a minor under 18. he could have been jailed up to seven years, fined, or both.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
in his most important public statement for months, boris johnson couldn't manage to say the right date, but never mind, eh?find your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profilefind your bookmarks in your independent premium section, under my profile"freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction," ronald reagan famously, and entirely wrongly, said.
freedom may die, it may lie dormant for decades like a plague of cicadas, but it can never go extinct and it can, we now learn, be delayed by yet another four weeks.
freedom day, as widely anticipated, is no longer 21 june but 19 july.
well, probably 19 july anyway.
it could be 29 july as, in his most important public statement for months, boris johnson couldn't quite manage to say the right date, but never mind, eh?it's not his fault.
it's the delta variant's fault.
just like the alpha variant that came along and ruined christmas, along comes the delta variant and ruins freedom day.
and when we say, "along comes", we do very much mean along comes.
along it came, on hundreds of direct flights from india, that carried on for weeks after bangladesh and pakistan were added to the "red list" but not india which was, at that point, about to welcome one boris johnson for an official visit.
so, another four weeks it is then.
this four weeks, by the way, is to allow more time for everyone to be vaccinated, so that the virus can't spread.
since these dates were announced, the uk has had one of the fastest vaccine roll-outs in the world.
it could scarcely have gone any better.
is it reasonable, maybe, to wonder whether freedom day might, maybe, have been scheduled for after that date?
was it, maybe, not altogether wise to lift all restrictions, reopen nightclubs and the like, when the vast, vast majority of people who go to them – young people – had been offered no protection at all?there were some exemptions.
if you've got a wedding booked for between 21 june and 19 july, that will still be allowed to go ahead with unlimited numbers, with the tiny, tiny detail that it'll have to be socially distanced and therefore with no dance floor.
but it can go ahead, so the wedding insurers won't pay out, and the venue won't permit further delay.
so it can go ahead, it'll just be a bit rubbish.
still, try not to get too down about it.
you might have been looking forward to the best day of your life for quite some time, but don't worry.
these things have a tendency to come round again far quicker than you think.
just ask the prime minister.
join thought-provoking conversations, follow other independent readers and see their repliesfreedom's just another word: johnson forgets his dates as he announces a push-back of 'freedom day'pawant to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later?
start your independent premium subscription today.
log innew to the independent?want an ad-free experience?subscribe to independent premium.
kuala lumpur: gabungan parti sarawak (gps), the ruling coalition in the borneo state, highlighted the importance of a "strong and stable government" as one of the crucial factors in the fight against covid-19 in its meeting with the malaysian king on monday (jun 14).
four top leaders from the coalition were the last group to be granted an audience by king al-​sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shahin a series of meetingswith party chiefs since last wednesday.
in a statement issued after the audience via video conferencing from kuching, chiefs of the parti rakyat sarawak (prs), sarawak united people's party (supp) and progressive democratic party (pdp) said they backed chief minister abang abdul rahman zohari abang openg's position as the coalition chairman on three factors for the covid-19 battle.
"the vaccination programme is to be accelerated and completed by august to achieve herd immunity.
"the presence of a strong and stable government to ensure covid-19 programme and (economic) implementation are well-grounded," the statement read.
the third factor is the implementation of a post-covid-19 economic exit plan, the statement added.
mr abang abdul rahman zohari is the president of parti pesaka bumiputera bersatu (pbb).
the gps was formed in 2018 after the four parties quit barisan nasional following the latter's defeat in the 14th general election.
while not a member of the perikatan nasional coalition, which took over federal administration in a power tussle last year, gps had said that it supported prime minister muhyiddin yassin in the interest of political stability.
the sarawak state election, which was supposed to be held this year, has been postponed as mandated by the state of emergency proclaimed by the king in january.
the palace said king al-​sultan abdullah would meet fellow malay rulers on wednesday to discuss malaysia's efforts to curb the spread of covid-19 and its implementation during the state of emergency.
in last week's royal audiences, leader of the opposition anwar ibrahim pleaded with the kingnot to extend the state of emergency, which was slated to end on aug 1. calling for the same, united malays national organisation president ahmad zahid hamidi said the party also wantedthe parliament to reconvene.
parliament meetings have been suspended since the state of emergency was declared, putting attempts to challenge mr muhyiddin's razor-thin majority on hold.
former prime minister mahathir mohamad, meanwhile, said he is in favour of setting up anational operations councilto help solve the health, economic, and social issues currently plaguing the country.
on monday, malaysia's new daily cases dropped below the 5,000-mark for the first time in close to a month.
a nationwide lockdown was earlierextended by another two weeksto jun 28. mr muhyiddin said on sunday that a national recovery plan in preparation for the country to emerge from the covid-19 pandemic was in the works.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore if you find yourself struggling to spell words like receive and successful, you are not alone.
a recent study by edubirdie, a professional essay writing service, revealed that these are among the most commonly misspelt words found in essays submitted to it by students in the united states, britain, canada and australia for editing between 2019 and 2020. the study analysed the grammatical mistakes made by students in their essays, going through more than 500,000 words in total.
it found that spelling mistakes ranked highest among the types of language errors, which include misplaced modifiers and lack of subject-verb agreement.
english language educators see similar patterns here.
mr benjamin wong, a secondary school teacher, has noticed that the word receive is very commonly misspelt as students here tend to switch the positions of the letters i and e. words like accommodate and convenient are also commonly spelt wrongly.
he attributes a regression in the spelling abilities of younger generations, as compared with older ones, to an over-reliance on automatic spelling correction tools in smartphones and word processors like microsoft word.
"many do not feel the need to learn the correct spelling by heart because they can always use the predictive text and autocorrect function in their phones and laptops.
"mr wong adds that texting could play a role in causing mistakes, as many people do not have enough practice spelling out difficult words in full.
"with texting being the most common mode of communication, many text in shorthand.
for example, instead of spelling 'separate' in full, many type 'sep'.
"ms christabel hong, an english tutor, echoes this sentiment but adds that there could be other reasons for misspelling words.
one factor could be mispronunciation.
words like privilege and mischievous, for example, are frequently misspelt because they are often pronounced incorrectly.
ms hong says changes in form may also lead to mistakes converting the verb explain to the noun explanation, for instance, can be confusing as it involves adding and removing letters.
to improve spelling ability, both educators emphasise the need to make a conscious effort to do so.
mr wong says: "i do believe we have to make a concerted and deliberate attempt to correct our spelling errors by committing the correct spelling to memory.
"top 10 misspelt words1.
tomorrow: misspelt as tommorow2.
which: misspelt as wich3.
completely: misspelt as completly4.
receive: misspelt as recieve5.
until: misspelt as untill6.
finally: misspelt as finaly7.
successful: misspelt as succesful8.
beginning: misspelt as begining9.
definitely: misspelt as definately10.
government: misspelt as goverment• source: edubirdie get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore larger groups of people were seen at some parks and several beauty salons were fully booked on monday (june 14), the first day of the relaxation of covid-19 curbs imposed since last month.
when the straits times visited bishan park and jurong lake gardens on monday morning (june 14), many of those who had gathered in groups of up to five said they were glad they could do so after spending a month cooped up at home.
with two weeks left in the june school holidays, many such groups had young children with them.
civil servant anna wong, 45, was at jurong lake gardens for a walk with her two sons, her mother and a domestic helper.
"my mother lives in a different unit from us.
taking her to the park with the kids was something we wanted to do together," said ms wong.
"it can get pretty stifling if she were to stay indoors all day.
"ms siti muslehat mustaffa and ms mardina majid, both 56, were at bishan park with ms siti's nephew, 10, and ms mardina's two nieces, age nine and 12.  the women, who are friends living together, said the children are from two different households and were staying with them for a day.
"when we heard the new rules, we thought: finally, we can all go out together.
the kids are enjoying it the most because they get to meet one another," said ms siti.
she added the five of them were planning to have lunch together at home after their walk.
ms tessie parro, 38, her son and daughter, and their domestic helper were also at bishan park.
she said the last time they had all gone out together was before may 16.
"during phase two (heightened alert), i had to go out with only one of my kids," she said.
"i feel happy and relieved that it's safe to go out again.
it's the school holidays so my kids have nothing to do and the house can get very chaotic.
when they're outside, they can release their energy by running around.
"ms olga badenova, 42, was spotted with three friends at a badminton court in a housing board estate in kang ching road.
the ballet teacher said she was glad she could resume her usual twice- or thrice-weekly badminton games with her friends, after a month of not being able to play together.
from monday (june 14), groups of up to five people can gather socially again, up from the limit of two imposed as part of heightened alert measures from may 16 to sunday.
capacity limits at attractions like the singapore zoo and gardens by the bay have also been increased to 50 per cent of their usual operating capacity, up from 25 per cent previously.
people at the singapore zoo on june 14, 2021.  capacity limits at attractions have been increased to 50 per cent of their usual operating capacity, up from 25 per cent previously.
st photo: alphonsus chern

people queueing to rent bicycles at east coast park on june 14, 2021.  st photo: mohd khalid baba
with the relaxing of the measures, some businesses such as beauty salons that involve clients removing their masks are also allowed to resume.
ms jerrie man, director of the j studios beauty salon, which has two outlets in jurong east and haji lane, said all slots for facial treatments on monday had been booked.
ms man, 39, said business has been tough lately as customers had to postpone their treatments in the light of the restrictions.
"we closed for three weeks, from the first day of the restrictions till last monday," she said.
"our main source of income has been our regular customers who would contact us to buy products like facial wash. "madam lim joo li, director of beauty horizon aesthetics salon in international plaza, said she was fully booked for appointments for the rest of the week.
"i'm definitely relieved that i can finally open again.
during the circuit breaker last year, we lost some customers who never returned afterwards," said madam lim, 50.
"these included the elderly, whose children felt it wasn't safe for them to be out and about.
"ms lim added she was planning to diversify her services and offer more body treatments that can be done even if customers need to put on their masks.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore ride-hailing operator gojek will halve the commission it receives from its drivers from june 21 till at least the end of 2022 to help them increase their earnings.
this means gojek drivers will get to keep 90 per cent of the fare from every trip, instead of 80 per cent.
the move comes after grab, the dominant ride-hailing operator here, said it would seek to improve drivers' earnings by introducing a $1 fare hike from this month.
gojek said on monday (june 14) that the cut in commission, which it refers to as service fees, will help to lessen the impact of the covid-19 pandemic on its drivers.
it said a survey it conducted found that 50 per cent of drivers want lower service fees for better earnings.
gojek will also introduce a payout of $3 to drivers who have to drive 3km or more to pick-up their passenger, among other measures.
its general manager, mr lien choong luen, said: "the ongoing impact of the pandemic is a consistent worry for our driver-partners as they try to sustain their earnings amid the uncertainty.
"these measures will have a profound impact on the livelihoods of our driver-partners, increasing their take-home earnings while giving them more flexibility by reducing their dependence on incentives.
"gojek said the changes reflect a significant investment in singapore as it seeks to grow its market share here.
it also said that a recent campaign to provide free or discounted rides to and from vaccination sites for all riders in singapore has registered 117,500 rides so far.
several drivers have been calling for ride-hailing operators to cut their commissions to help drivers tide over the impact of the pandemic.
while grab has not announced a cut of its 20 per cent commission rate, it said last month that it will permanently raise fares by $1 from this month to improve driver earnings amid rising fuel and maintenance costs.
it will not collect commission on the additional $1 from june 1 to june 30.  this means drivers will get $1 more for every ride they complete with grab for a month.
associate professor walter theseira of the singapore university of social sciences said that gojek's move to lower driver commissions has not been seen for years in the local market.
prof theseira, who teaches economics and looks at urban transport issues, noted that what matters most for drivers is their take-home earnings, which is also affected by the number of passengers a platform can attract.
"gojek would very likely have to combine commission cuts to drivers with measures to encourage commuters to switch," he added.
"otherwise, you would have more drivers chasing the same number of commuters, which means  their take-home earnings could go down after switching to gojek.
"ms yeo wan ling, adviser to the national private hire vehicles association, said the association welcomes gojek's decision to cut its commission rates.
"we foresee that the road to recovery during phase 3 (heightened alert) and beyond will take time, and we hope that this is something that other private hire platforms can also consider to support our drivers' livelihoods and well-being," she added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there have been reports from numerous countries of animals, including pets, getting infected with covid-19.
last week, an asiatic lion at a zoo in india died from it.
its death prompted the testing of dozens of elephants at a forest reserve in the country.
tigers in india have also been tested.
russia reportedly started vaccinating pets at veterinary clinics with its carnivak-cov vaccine in late may.
the straits times (st) answers some common questions about animals and covid-19.
a: a small number of animals, including pet dogs, mink raccoon dogs and zoo animals such as tigers and lions have tested positive for covid-19 after coming into contact with infected individuals.
two cases of human-to-cat covid-19 transmission in the united kingdom were reported in the journal veterinary research in late april, providing further evidence of such spread.
"one had mild illness and the other severe.
the viral strains in both cats were very similar to human strains," said professor paul tambyah from the nus yong loo lin school of medicine.
covid-19 infections in farmed mink have also been reported in at least 10 countries.
millions of the animals, which are valued for their fur, have been culled to prevent future spillover events to humans.
a: there are very few reports of an animal passing covid-19 back to humans, though there were reports of mink farmers in northern europe infected by strains that moved from humans to mink and back to humans, said prof tambyah.
the vast majority of the millions of sars-cov-2 infections have been human-to-human transmissions and it appears that animal-to-human transmission is extremely rare, he added.
the world organisation for animal health (oie) said that animals do not play a significant role in the covid-19 pandemic, which is being sustained through human-to-human transmission.
a: confirmed cases in cats and dogs are extremely rare and generally result in mild symptoms, said the world small animal veterinary association (wsava) in the united states.
no dog or cat is known to have died from the infection to date, it said.
people with suspected or confirmed covid-19 infection should avoid contact with animals, including pets, livestock and wildlife, said the us centres for disease control and prevention (cdc).
if you suspect your pet has covid-19, you can contact the national parks board's animal and veterinary services.
it conducts biosurveillance and is able to do the right kind of polymerase chain reaction testing for sars-cov-2 in animals, said prof tambyah.
a: no.
prof tambyah said there are no licensed covid-19 vaccines for animals here.
the wsava said there have been no cases in which a dog or a cat has been proven to transmit the virus to people.
there is no need for owners to consider vaccinating their pets against sars-cov-2 at this time, it said.
"as sars-cov-2 infection of dogs and cats most commonly originates from an infected human, the best way to protect a pet is to vaccinate the owners so that they are less likely to infect their pet," it said in a late april statement.
in the us last year, veterinary pharmaceutical firm zoetis started development activities for a vaccine, based on initial concerns about sars-cov-2 in domestic animals.
"if regulatory authorities determine there is a need, we are prepared to act quickly to further develop our covid-19 vaccine for animals," ms christina lood, its senior director of innovation and sustainability communications, told st. a: the exact origins of sars-cov-2 are yet to be determined.
it could be many years before we know for sure.
the common belief so far is that sars-cov-2 likely originated from bats, a known reservoir of coronaviruses, and jumped to humans through an unknown intermediary animal host, like a pangolin.
still, a june 7 report by researchers from china west normal university and oxford university found that more than 47,000 live animals were sold at wuhan wet markets from may 2017 to november 2019, but no pangolins or bats were traded.
there are other hypotheses, including the politically charged theory that sars-cov-2 was leaked from a laboratory in china.
the oie estimates that at least 75 per cent of emerging infectious diseases affecting humans, including ebola, hiv and influenza, have an animal origin.
a: the four wildlife parks here already have strict protocols, such as quarantining new animals, to prevent cross transmission of diseases from humans to animals under their care and vice versa, said a wildlife reserves singapore (wrs) spokesman.
the covid-19 outbreak led to more measures, including the need for staff to wash their hands with soap and water before interacting with an animal, as well as donning face masks and gloves when working with an animal.
they also minimise or avoid direct contact unless required, especially with higher-risk species such as primates and carnivores.
"as added preventive measures, our great apes such as the orangutans and chimpanzees also undergo temperature checks twice a day," said the wrs spokesman.
he said the risk of humans contracting covid-19 from animals is very low.
"in addition, our veterinarians assess that due to the low number of community cases in singapore, coupled with the extra precaution we have taken to care for our animals, the risk of our animals contracting covid-19 is very low," he said.
none of the zoo animals here has been infected with covid-19.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the people's association (pa) has withdrawn its offer to meet a malay/muslim couple whose photo was used as a standee for hari raya aidilfitri decorations without permission, citing disagreements with them over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, had posted on social media on may 28 about the inappropriate use of her wedding photograph at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
however, in a facebook post on monday (june 14), the pa, which oversees various grassroots groups, said it saw no point in going ahead with the meeting, citing ms sarah's recent comments on the matter.
the pa said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and was "racist".
the agency rejected these claims, saying: "while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments.
"it also noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting.
"we find this odd.
we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," the pa added.
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"the couple's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
the vendor came up with the concept and design, and downloaded and used the photo from an online source for the standee.
after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also made references to two instagram stories ms sarah had posted recently in explaining its response.
in the first instagram story, ms sarah reshared an instagram story by another instagram user, @jeanpsychologist and in the second, ms sarah penned a series of reflections on the incident.
photos: sarahbagharib/instagram
in the first, she reshared an instagram story by another instagram user, @jeanpsychologist, who had responded to an instagram post ms sarah had made.
user @jeanpsychologist thanked ms sarah for posting on the incident, and called for chinese singaporeans to "educate ourselves on our conditioned racism", saying this is "long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them".
in the second instagram story, ms sarah penned a series of reflections on the incident, and said she was thankful to those who had stood in solidarity with her and her husband as well as other ethnic minorities in the aftermath of "this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed)".
the pa also claimed ms sarah had insinuated in an online talk show on june 7 that pa's staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
she had been asked by host walid jumblatt abdullah, an assistant professor from nanyang technological university, whether she would accept an invitation from mr yong to meet in person if he had made such an offer.
ms sarah replied she would, wondered if the mp had seen the standee, and added that "something is definitely wrong" if he had seen the standee and did not say anything about it.
she also referred to someone's comment about internalised racism, and spoke about how some people are blind to racism, or feel there is nothing wrong with racism as it does not impact them.
in its post, the pa stressed it remains steadfast in its mission to promote racial harmony, and that its grassroots organisations, such as the malay activity executive committees council and narpani pearavai, play a key role in representing the interests of the malay and indian communities.
"we regularly reach out to numerous community partners among all our races and religions to ensure their concerns are actively considered when designing our programmes," it added.
the pa also said that what happened at radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
"we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures.
singaporeans becoming 'one people' is a work in progress and so is the pa. "the pa also said ms sarah's allegation in her e-mail on june 1, that the pa was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" to "distance and deflect blame" from itself, was untrue.
it said the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on may 28 and apologised, before the pa issued its statement on may 29. the straits times has contacted ms sarah for comment.
she had written on instagram on june 1, after acknowledging pa's apology: "as an ethnic minority, this isn't new seeing others have a superficial understanding of my culture and then feeling like i have to explain it is.
.
.
exhausting.
but i want to help bridge that gap where possible through real and respectful conversations so that we can move beyond superficial understanding and promote deeper social cohesion.
"a post shared by sarah bagharib (@sarahbagharib)in her june 7 talk show, she also said she had spoken up about the incident as she would like to see more "tangible accountability" from the pa to ensure such incidents do not happen again.
this includes hearing about steps that they will take.
she also noted that when minorities speak up about their experiences, they are not doing so in order to incite racial disharmony.
the pa said in its post: "enhancing our understanding of singapore's various races, religions and cultures is a ceaseless effort this lapse having been a good reminder of this.
.
.
we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the chief justice on monday (june 14) allowed an application by the law society of singapore to investigate a complaint against a bankrupt non-practising lawyer.
the complaint was made against ms helen chia chwee imm, who has been a lawyer for more than 20 years.
she was bankrupt and did not have a valid practising certificate when she allegedly claimed to be a practising lawyer and borrowed $60,000 from a client and the client's mother.
the client engaged ms chia around december 2016 to represent her in matrimonial proceedings involving the care and custody of her child.
in november 2017, the client applied to the family justice courts for the care and custody of her child, after she was advised to do so by ms chia.
mediation was scheduled on dec 18 that year.
but, about a week before the mediation date, ms chia told the client that she was an undischarged bankrupt, and thus unable to represent her.
anxious, the client then lent ms chia $40,000, purportedly to allow her to discharge her bankruptcy and represent the client.
the mediation did not proceed on the scheduled day as ms chia could not attend on behalf of the client, and the case was fixed for hearing in april 2018. ms chia is alleged to have approached the client's mother in february 2018 and borrowed another $20,000 from her.
in march 2018, ms chia allegedly told the client that she was joining another firm, and that her case would also be transferred to the new firm.
the client agreed to this, but did not know that ms chia was still an undischarged bankrupt without a valid practising certificate at the time.
when the hearing took place in april, another lawyer turned up to represent the client instead of ms chia.
the client's application failed, and the client later filed an appeal.
ms chia was finally discharged as a bankrupt in may 2018. from june to september 2018, ms chia and the client discussed the appeal and the repayment of the sum owed by ms chia.
court documents said their relationship soured because of the unpaid loans and the client's unhappiness over how ms chia had handled the case.
the client discharged ms chia in september 2018 and hired new lawyers.
ms chia repaid the loans later that month after numerous acrimonious whatsapp exchanges and a letter of demand sent by the client's new lawyers.
the client's appeal for her case succeeded in august 2019, and she lodged a complaint with the law society against ms chia a month later.
the law society formed an inquiry committee to look into the complaint, and ms chia claimed that she was suffering from depression because of "several emotionally draining matters", but did not produce any medical reports to show this.
the inquiry also discovered that ms chia did not have a valid practising certificate from december 2016 to may 2018. as a result of this, the committee did not make any further findings as the law society requires leave to investigate a non-practising lawyer.
it then made the application to the court to be allowed to investigate the complaint.
ms chia objected to this, saying the application could only be made by the client, and not the law society.
on monday, chief justice sundaresh menon allowed the application for leave to be granted.
in his 29-page grounds of decision, he noted the severity of the allegations of misconduct and the strong evidence.
the law society had also made the application to the court without delay once it realised ms chia was not a practising lawyer at the time.
the chief justice said the prior proceedings by the law society's inquiry committee did not prejudice ms chia, and there was no evidence given proving her purported depression.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem • mr naftali bennett is a multi-millionaire former tech entrepreneur who made his political name with hardline religious-nationalist rhetoric.
a former defence minister and one-time special forces commando, mr bennett, 49, leads the right-wing yamina party, which has called for israel to annex parts of the occupied west bank.
he is israel's first premier to lead an openly religious lifestyle, with his small skullcap, or kippa, fastened to his head.
mr bennett shares this ideology with former prime minister benjamin netanyahu, having served in several of the latter's governments.
but in recent years, tensions between the two arose and intensified.
mr bennett lives with his wife gilat and four children in the central city of raanana.
the son of us-born parents, mr bennett speaks perfect english, is ultra-liberal on the economy and takes a hardline stance against israel's arch-foe, iran.
he entered politics after selling his tech start-up for us$145 million in 2005, and became chief of staff the next year to mr netanyahu, then in the opposition.
after leaving mr netanyahu's office, mr bennett in 2010 became head of the yesha council, which lobbies for jewish settlers in the west bank.
in 2012, he took charge of the hard-right jewish home party, which was facing annihilation.
he increased its parliamentary presence fourfold, while making headlines with a series of incendiary comments about palestinians.
in 2013, he said palestinian "terrorists should be killed, not released".
he also argued that the west bank was not under occupation as "there was never a palestinian state (in the area", and that the israeli-palestinian conflict could not be resolved but must be endured.
last year, in opposition and with covid-19 raging, mr bennett dampened his right-wing rhetoric to focus on the health crisis.
he moved to broaden his appeal by releasing plans to contain the pandemic and aid the economy.
former supporters and critics have accused him of betraying his nationalist voters by joining a fledgling coalition that includes the dovish meretz party and support from the arab israeli islamic conservative party raam.
but he said he is on a mission to restore israel's governance and avoid a fifth election in little more than two years.
"the core promise of these elections was to extract israel from chaos.
i chose what's good for israel," he said.
agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: private-sector economists have once again raised their 2021 growth forecasts for the singapore economy, according to the latest quarterly survey by the monetary authority of singapore (mas) released on monday (jun 14).
the 24 economists polled are expecting the economy to grow 6.
5 per cent this year, up from theearlier forecast of 5.
8 per centand the second upgrade they have made in six months.
this is also higher than the 4 per cent to 6 per cent forecast range that the ministry of trade and industry left unchanged last month, citing "heightened uncertainties" arising from the global covid-19 pandemic.
singapore saw a spike in local community infections in recent months and on may 16 tightened restrictions under what authorities called aphase 2 (heightened alert)in order to stem transmissions.
this included increasing the cap on social gatherings to two people, banning dining-in at restaurants and returning to work-from-home as the default.
some of these tightened measures werelifted on mondayas the number of community cases fell, with the limit on group sizes back up to five people.
if the situation remains under control, dine-ins will once again be possible from jun 21. economists had previously said the temporary move to tighten curbswould not throw the economic recovery off course.
in the latest mas survey released on monday, they pencilled in year-on-year growth of 15 per cent for the second quarter which lasts from april to june.
this is higher than the earlier estimate of 14.
6 per cent.
for the year ahead, the manufacturing sector remains a key bright spot in the economy.
the sector, which makes up about one-fifth of singapore's economy, is expected to grow 8.
3 per cent, well above the forecast of 4.
7 per cent three months ago.
the outlook also brightened for the finance and insurance sector at 6 per cent, a slight upgrade from the 5.
8 per cent in the previous survey; as well as for non-oil domestic exports which is seen rising 7.
5 per cent this year compared with the last 6.
9 per cent estimate.
the battered construction sector remains on track for a recovery this year, although its growth outlook has been trimmed to 19.
3 per cent from 22.
5 per cent previously.
among the others with a dimmer outlook, growth for the accommodation and food services sector is now at 6.
5 per cent, nearly halving from the 11 per cent expected three months ago.
expectations for private consumption is also down to 5.
2 per cent from 7.
9 per cent, while wholesale and retail trade is seen rising 4.
4 per cent, down marginally from the last 4.
5 per cent forecast.
the labour market is set to improve marginally as economists expect the unemployment rate to reach 2.
7 per cent by the end of the year, compared with the earlier expected 2.
9 per cent.
an escalation of the covid-19 situation remained the top downside risk to growth, said the economists.
this is followed by geopolitical tensions and a slower-than-expected labour market recovery that could weigh on private consumption.
as for upside risks, these include a containment of the pandemic, a stronger-than-expected performance from the manufacturing sector and the possibility of borders reopening for international travel.
further ahead in 2022, the singapore economy is set to expand by 4 per cent.
the mas survey was sent out on may 25 to close private-sector watchers of the singapore economy.
the findings do not represent the central bank's views or forecasts, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                singapore reports 10 new covid-19 community infections, including 2 unlinked.
singapore's total cases on sunday (june 13, 2021) now stands at 62, 276.  the straits times/annsingapore, june 13 (the straits times/ann): there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62, 276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
meanwhile, 266 people who have mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19 are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
altogether 34 people have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection in singapore.
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sunday (june 13)
                                                                ,
                                                                                                only 13
                                                                ,
                                                                                                situation
                                                                ,
                                                                                                under control



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
detained politician faces a string of charges, including accepting illegal payments and violating colonial-era law.
the trial of deposed myanmar leader aung san suu kyi began on monday, more than four months after the military seized power in a coup.
the military regime has brought an eclectic mix of charges against aung san suu kyi, who was returned to office after her national league for democracy won a landslide victory in elections last november, including claims she accepted illegal payments of gold and violated a colonial-era secrecy law.
a special court in naypyidaw, the capital, heard a police major testify that the 75-year-old broke coronavirus restrictions while campaigning during the polls, while another testified on separate charges accusing her of illegally importing and possessing walkie-talkies, her lawyer min min soe told afp news agency.
aung san suu kyi was hit with additional corruption charges last week over claims she illegally accepted $600,000 in cash and approximately 11kg (24.
2 pounds) of gold.
journalists were barred from proceedings in court, and an afp reporter said there was a heavy police presence outside.
aung san suu kyi's lawyers, who have struggled to gain access to their client, say they expect the trial to wrap up by july 26. a separate trial is scheduled to start on tuesday over sedition charges she faces alongside overthrown president win myint and another senior member of the nld.
if convicted of all charges, aung san suu kyi faces more than a decade in jail.
"it is a show trial motivated only by political reasons," said debbie stothard, coordinator of the alternative asean network on burma.
"min aung hlaing [military chief] is determined to lock up aung san suu kyi for the rest of her life.
if he could, he would probably charge her under every law available.
"human rights watch said the allegations were "bogus and politically motivated" with the intention of nullifying the nld victory and preventing aung san suu kyi from running for office again.
"this trial is clearly the opening salvo in an overall strategy to neuter suu kyi and the national league for democracy party as a force that can challenge military rule in the future," said deputy asia director phil robertson.
near-daily protests have rocked myanmar since the generals' february 1 putsch.
a mass uprising has been met with a brutal military crackdown that has killed more than 850 civilians, according to a local monitoring group.
analysts say army chief min aung hlaing determined to sideline hugely popular leader and reshape political landscape.
military attacks have forced villagers into the jungle and stiffened the resolve of those fighting against the coup.
protesters demand firmer action against military leaders' february power grab and recognition of civilian government.
men in embattled town of mindat flee to the hills as military steps up crackdown on resistance to february 1 coup.
follow al jazeera english:
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore more than 2,500 workers have been tested for covid-19 at jewel changi airport, which reopened on monday (june 14) after a month-long closure.
all the test results were negative.
close to 90 per cent of eligible staff have also taken at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine, the mall management said on monday.
to help businesses affected by the closure, full rental waiver will be extended by another week, from monday to sunday, said ms hung jean, chief executive of jewel changi airport development.
additional rental assistance will also be given to tenants for the week of june 21 to june 27.  jewel did not say how much additional assistance it will provide.
said ms hung: "we are cognisant that it will take time to ramp up footfall at jewel as singapore cautiously moves into phase 3 (heightened alert) with a gradual easing of restrictions.
"precautionary measures have also been stepped up.
this includes the purging of air-conditioned air two hours before opening hours.
during the closure period, thorough cleaning and disinfection of the premises, including tenanted spaces, was carried out, although no covid-19 cases were detected at jewel.
visitors mostly families with young children started arriving as shops and eateries in the mall began to open at about 10am.
while the spectre of the recent covid-19 outbreak at changi airport that led to the month-long closure continues to linger on the minds of some business owners, customers who spoke to the straits times were assured by the measures put in place to prevent another outbreak.
mrs chua zi yun, 30, who was at jewel with her husband and their two sons, age three and one, said it was the same as visiting any other shopping mall.
"they have already cleaned the place and sanitised everything and it is not open to the terminal buildings where they are receiving foreigners, so i think it is quite safe," said the civil servant.
"it is a good place for the kids to run around, so that's why we are here even though we live in the west.
i figured there wouldn't be a lot of people today since it is the first day (of reopening).
"mrs chua added: "if we just do our part, wear our masks and do not go too close to other people, i think we will be fine.
"a technician who wanted to be known only as mr raemi, 52, was at the mall on his day off with his wife.
he shared the same sentiments.
"(the closure) was for the common good.
it needed to be done.
i'm not worried.
i believe the authorities have done a thorough deep cleaning," he said.
mr raemi added that he and his wife had been looking forward to jewel's reopening and had travelled from their home in western singapore to the mall.
"we do enjoy our time here.
there are not many places where you can have the luxury of space and (have everything) under one roof.
"some tenants, such as burger joint shake shack, were encouraged by the initial turnout on monday and expect sales to pick up over the weekend.
others, however, said they foresee business to be slow given the continued ban on dining in and the dearth of tourists at the mall.
some tenants, such as burger joint shake shack, were encouraged by the initial turnout on monday and expect sales to pick up over the weekend.
st photo: lim yaohui


additional rental assistance will be given to tenants for the week of june 21 to june 27, 2021.  st photo: lim yaohui
besides stepping up its precautionary measures, jewel is also offering free parking from 10am to 11pm daily to attract visitors.
the mall is open 24 hours, but most shops operate from 10am to 10pm.
shake shack singapore's operations director cami soh said the free parking, which will last until july 11, will go some way towards getting people back into the mall and is also good for deliverymen.
while she could not share any sales figures, ms soh said she was happy with how the first day of reopening had gone.
"initially, we thought that people would be afraid of coming to jewel after the outbreak, but we are seeing crowds.
.
.
we think we will do even better over the next few days," she added.
ms soh said she expects sales to pick up even further once dining in is allowed to resume.
this is slated to take place from june 21. mr mark shaw, director of shaw organisation, which operates the shaw theatres chain, said what has hurt the firm's bottom line is the lack of concession sales due to the ban on dining in.
he added: "all cinemas are very dependent on selling soft drinks and popcorn.
obviously we're slightly disappointed that (dining in) hasn't reopened together with the theatres, (but) we are quite confident that jewel's management and their marketing teams will be on point and get it out there that jewel is open for business.
"caerus holding, which manages local outlets of luke's lobster and confectionery chain lady m, said sales have slowed as it was not only hit by jewel's closure but also by the temporary closure of westgate, where it has a lady m outlet.
said its chief operating officer geraldine liew: "while we're definitely glad about the declining community cases and the return of dining in, we do foresee lower mall traffic.
"jewel was shut on may 13 along with changi airport terminals 1 and 3 to stem the spread of a growing covid-19 cluster that originated from terminal 3. 

visitors at jewel changi airport on june 14, 2021.  st photo: lim yaohui

people playing at the manulife sky nets in jewel changi airport's canopy park on june 14, 2021.  st photo: lim yaohui
the risk of a further outbreak at the airport, and at jewel, appears to have abated as the most recent cases linked to the t3 cluster tested positive on may 22 more than three weeks ago.
in all, 108 people, including 43 airport workers, were infected.
the civil aviation authority of singapore and changi airport group (cag) said last friday that deep cleaning and disinfection of jewel and the passenger terminals was completed and new safety measures segregating 14,000 airport workers into three distinct zones based on risk level are in place.
the airport's passenger terminal buildings will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adjust to the new zoning system, the authorities had said.
​some businesses at the passenger terminals and jewel told the straits times earlier this month that they have adapted to disruptions brought on by the pandemic in the past year, such as by reducing the number of staff at the airport and switching to online sales.
some have settled for just covering their costs as they await a recovery in air travel.
the full rental waiver provided by cag during the period of closure, as well as the government's additional wage support from april to this month, has provided much-needed relief.
the manager of a food and beverage outlet at jewel said on monday that he was glad to reopen after being forced to close for the past month.
the 35-year-old, who declined to be named, told st that the sudden closure of jewel last month led to a week's worth of inventory going to waste.
while the outlet was able to do deliveries and takeaways during the eight-week circuit breaker last year, they were not able to do so during the month-long closure of jewel, leading to an 80 per cent fall in sales.
the f&b outlet has had to run on a lean team of just five people for fear of another closure or lockdown.
reopening brings with it another set of challenges ensuring patrons comply with safe distancing measures, he said.
still, the manager was glad to be back at work.
"for us tenants, at least there is something for us to do now instead of staying at home," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
bangkok: thailand'srecently launched coronavirus vaccination campaignwas hit by confusion in the capital on monday (jun 14) after at least 20 hospitals in bangkok postponed covid-19 inoculation appointments set for this week, citing delays in vaccine deliveries.
the hospital announcements were made on their facebook pages, while bangkok's vaccine booking app also sent messages saying appointments after tuesday would be delayed, as officials sought to reassure the public over vaccine supplies.
"there may have been confusion because private hospitals did not check with the bangkok administration," health minister anutin charnvirakul told reporters on monday, adding that more doses were being delivered to bangkok.
thailand's main vaccine drive is depending on 61 million shots from astrazeneca, produced by siam bioscience, a company owned by the country's powerful king.
there have been concerns about a possible shortfall in production, with several countries in the region reporting delays in orders of thai-made shots.
astrazeneca and siam bioscience have not responded to reuters requests for comment on production delays, though the anglo-swedish drugmaker said it was working with southeast asia's governments on vaccine deliveries.
.
thailand currently offers astrazeneca and china's sinovac shots.
"we are not slowing down vaccinations, but there should be a calculation of the doses received," anutin said.
in a separate briefing, bangkok governor aswin kwanmuang said there had been some "technical errors" in delivery of vaccines and the city had notified those who registered between jun 15-21.
"we will vaccinate as quickly as possible once we receive the vaccines," said aswin.
thailand has recorded a total of 199,264 covid-19 infections and 1,466 deaths.
over 80 per cent of the new cases and 90 per cent of fatalities have been reported after april, putting pressure on authorities to speed up vaccinations.
so far, 1.
6 million people out of a population of more than 66 million are fully vaccinated, below the rates achieved by some neighbours.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore (reuters) singapore-based car marketplace carro said on tuesday (june 15) it has raised us$360 million (s$478 million) in its latest funding round led by softbank vision fund 2, becoming the region's latest unicorn.
"the valuation for the company is well over a billion dollars," ceo and founder of carro, aaron tan, told reuters.
he did not provide a specific number.
a unicorn is a privately held start-up valued at over us$1 billion.
carro will use the fresh capital to expand into new locations and grow its business in its existing markets indonesia, thailand, malaysia, and singapore.
it also plans to expand its portfolio of financial services and accelerate development of artificial intelligence capabilities.
carro's platform allows consumers and wholesale businesses to buy and sell vehicles along with providing insurance and financing services.
other investors in the new round of financing include several prominent indonesian-based funds including ev growth, it said.
since being founded in 2015, carro has raised more than us$400 million in equity and us$200 million in debt.
its previous investors include softbank ventures asia, edbi pte, insignia ventures partners and b capital group.
the company has started preparing internally for an initial public offering (ipo), mr tan said.
"the plan is to ipo the company, hopefully, in the next 18-24 months in the us, depending on whether the market holds," he said.
while carro saw an initial decline in business due to the covid-19 pandemic, like other digital businesses, the company is now benefiting from users shifting to online transactions.
"people are more willing to buy vehicles entirely online without the need to visit a showroom," he said.
carro booked revenues of us$300 million for the year ending march 2021 and has registered positive ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for two years.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
analysts say army chief min aung hlaing determined to sideline hugely popular leader and reshape politics free of her influence.
after five years as the de facto leader of myanmar, aung san suu kyi finds herself in a familiar place: under house arrest while facing an eclectic mix of charges levelled by military rulers, with her party, the national league for democracy (nld), on the verge of dissolution.
on monday, more than four months after the military seized power in a coup, the hugely popular politician will face trial in a naypyidaw court on five charges including the illegal possession of walkie-talkies and breaking coronavirus restrictions while campaigning for elections.
military officials have also accused her of corruption and violating the colonial-era official secrets act.
there is a sense of finality about this showdown between aung san suu kyi, and army chief and coup leader, min aung hlaing.
at 75 years old, aung san suu kyi is facing prison sentences that could put her in jail for the rest of her life, permanently sidelining her from a political arena she has defined for decades.
meanwhile, many of her supporters have moved beyond her past calls for non-violent resistance and gradual reform, instead endorsing armed revolt and the total overthrow of the military regime.
"this time around, there is no indication that the regime plans to release aung san suu kyi, allow her to communicate with her supporters, or use her as a bargaining chip in its relations with the outside world.
rather, min aung hlaing wants to have a free hand to shape the political landscape free from the influence of her and the nld," said richard horsey, a political analyst with decades of experience in myanmar.
despite being largely shut off from the outside world for the last four months, she still occupies a central role in the continuing political crisis.
before the generals violently cracked down on protests, killing more than 850 civilians, posters and banners featuring aung san suu kyi's face were a mainstay at most demonstrations.
analysts say army chief min aung hlaing, right, wants to remove aung san suu kyi and the nld from the political landscape [file: myawaddy/afp]"it's far too early to write her off.
she is, without a doubt, by far the most popular political figure in the country, no one else even comes close," said thant myint-u, historian and author of the hidden history of burma.
aung san suu kyi emerged as a political force during the 1988 uprisings against a previous military regime, perfectly primed to take the helm of myanmar's pro-democracy movement during a period of instability.
the daughter of independence icon aung san, she had just returned from the united kingdom, where she had studied at oxford and married a british man.
she became synonymous with myanmar's pro-democracy movement and earned the respect of millions by sacrificing her freedom and safety for the cause, winning the nobel peace prize in 1991.  she spent years in and out of house arrest and survived an assassination attempt in 2003 that left dozens, possibly hundreds, dead.
aung san suu kyi's education and international recognition was also a source of admiration for many of her followers.
but while this was a strength in the eyes of many, it was an insult to the ultra-nationalist military, also known as the tatmadaw, which often insulted the "foreigner's wife".
in 2008, before allowing elections, the military regime drafted a new constitution that allowed it to retain control of several key institutions and guaranteed it 25 percent of the seats in parliament.
it also added a clause banning anyone with a foreign husband or child from serving as president, which many saw as being directly aimed at aung san suu kyi.
with the help of a constitutional lawyer named ko ni, she found a way around this prohibition, taking on the role of state counsellor after the nld's first election victory in 2015.  two years later, ko ni was shot dead.
but while she was a global superstar as an activist, many of her biggest supporters were disappointed once she was in power.
in 2017, hundreds of thousands of mostly muslim rohingya fled into bangladesh as the military unleashed a brutal crackdown in the western state of rakhine.
the nobel prize winner did not condemn the military's actions and, after a case of genocide was brought before the international court of justice in the hague, she travelled to the netherlands to defend what the generals had done.
"aung san suu kyi's domestic popularity only grew as she transitioned from dissident to national leader.
internationally, she fell spectacularly from grace as a result of the violence against the rohingya, in which she was seen as complicit by denying the extent of abuses and defending the military," said horsey.
aung san suu kyi returned home to care for her mother and found herself propelled into politics leading opposition to military rule [file: manny ceneta/afp]activist and protest leader thinzar shunlei yi is one of many young human rights defenders who grew up idolising aung san suu kyi, only to be let down by her time in power.
"she was the reason why i became a woman human rights defender," she said.
but as violence against the rohingya grew, thinzar shunlei yi became one of the only people to speak out against it, putting her at odds with her hero and her throngs of supporters.
"i was outspoken against her and got a lot of backfire," she said.
it was not just during the rohingya crisis where aung san suu kyi failed to live up to expectations.
"she was also seen as deserting her human rights principles when in government in other ways, including her treatment of the free media, civil society and ethnic minority rights," horsey explained.
when two reuters journalists were arrested for exposing the military killings of rohingya civilians, aung san suu kyi said the case "had nothing to do with freedom of expression at all".
during her time in power, journalists and facebook users faced criminal charges for criticising nld politicians.
with nld leadership scattered or in prison after the coup, more progressive activists like thinzar shunlei yi found themselves spearheading the initial resistance movement.
they called for increasingly radical change, like abolishing the military-drafted constitution of 2008, the complete removal of the military from politics, the reform of the discriminatory 1982 citizenship law that helped render the rohingya stateless, and armed revolution rather than non-violent resistance.
these positions were eventually endorsed by the national unity government, a parallel government set up by elected legislators in defiance of the military regime.
thinzar shunlei yi recognised that aung san suu kyi is still "so influential" in the pro-democracy movement, but also worried that her influence could be double-edged.
"even in this revolution, where many people go starving and running for their lives, people still think about her situation and weep for her," she said.
this can help motivate people even when they are beleaguered and losing hope.
but aung san suu kyi might not agree with the armed revolt, abolishing the constitution, or accepting the rohingya as citizens.
"we wonder what if she says something against the current revolution, things would go upside down," thinzar shunlei yi said.
people hold placards of aung san suu kyi in a rally to demand her release and protest against the military coup a week after the generals seized power [file: stringer/reuters]while some have argued that aung san suu kyi backed the military on the rohingya crisis due to fear of a coup or a need to appeal to a nationalist voter base, others say her position simply reflected her genuine beliefs on the issue.
"it's not at all clear that her position on the rohingya was driven by political considerations," horsey said.
"but it certainly meant that, at the time of the coup, she had a much-diminished international reputation at a time when she needed international support the most.
"altogether, aung san suu kyi is facing seven criminal charges; five in the capital city of naypyidaw, one at the supreme court and a recently added corruption charge.
her lawyers are among the only people who have had access to the detained leader since her arrest in february.
the leader of her legal team, khin maung zaw, told al jazeera they met with aung san suu kyi and deposed president win myint on june 7.  khin maung zaw said the five cases in naypyidaw were classified as "simple", with hearings to be held every monday and tuesday until the end of the month.
for the supreme court case, he said the court marked aung san suu kyi down as defending herself, something khin maung zaw said was done "without her knowledge and consent".
"she further said that she told the persons who kept her in custody that she wouldn't defend her cases without a lawyer," he said.
he said that while aung san suu kyi has not been satisfied with the military's arrangement to deliver her medicine regularly, she and the other two politicians "seemed to be in good health".
when asked about her spirits, khin maung zaw said, "unlike me, she's full of optimism".
on wednesday, the military revealed new corruption charges against aung san suu kyi for allegedly taking bribes and leasing land at discounted rates, which carry an additional prison sentence of 15 years.
khin maung zaw said the latest accusation is "absurd" and "groundless".
"she might have defects but personal greed and corruption is not her traits," he said, calling her "incorruptible".
michael aris, the late husband of aung san suu kyi, stands with their two sons alexander, left, and kim, right, at the nobel prize ceremony in oslo town hall on december 10, 1991 [stringer/reuters]given the nature of the trials, thinzar shunlei yi calls on aung san suu kyi to "join cdm" by "boycotting the judicial system".
cdm stands for the civil disobedience movement, a mass strike of civil servants refusing to work under the military regime.
"i don't trust the domestic judicial system and i don't think the [military] will do a fair trial for her and other leaders," she said.
while the outcome of the trial appears inevitable, thant myint-u says that what happened in myanmar was not.
"there was no way the army was going to agree to constitutional reform," thant myint-u said.
"but a visionary economic agenda that brought in billions in fresh investment and created millions of new jobs, together with measures to fight discrimination, build a more inclusive national identity, and work closely with civil society, could have outflanked the army leadership, and perhaps even won over many in the officer corps.
"al jazeera takes a look at the leader's life and how she went from being an icon of democracy to courting controversy.
what we know so far about monday's coup in myanmar.
why did myanmar's military overthrow the government?
and what does it mean for democracy?machine-gun fire, sleeping in safe houses and waking every morning anxious to find out who has been arrested overnight.
follow al jazeera english:
washington: jerry ramos spent his final days in a california hospital, hooked to an oxygen machine with blood clots in his lungs from covid-19, his 3-year-old daughter in his thoughts.
"i have to be here to watch my princess grow up," the mexican american restaurant worker wrote on facebook.
"my heart feels broken into pieces.
"ramos didn't live to see it.
he died feb 15 at age 32, becoming not just one of the nearly 600,000 americans who have now perished in the coronavirus outbreak but another example of the outbreak's strikingly uneven and ever-shifting toll on the nation's racial and ethnic groups.
the approaching 600,000 mark, as tracked by johns hopkins university, is greater than the population of baltimore or milwaukee.
it is about equal to the number of americans who died of cancer in 2019.  and as bad as that is, the true toll is believed to be significantly higher.
president joe biden acknowledged the milestone on monday (jun 14) during his visit to europe, saying that while new cases and deaths are dropping dramatically in the us, "there's still too many lives being lost", and "now is not the time to let our guard down".
on the way to the latest round-number milestone, the virus has proved adept at exploiting inequalities in the us, according to an associated press data analysis.
in the first wave of fatalities, in april 2020, black people were slammed, dying at rates higher than those of other ethnic or racial groups as the virus rampaged through the urban northeast and heavily african american cities like detroit and new orleans.
last summer, during a second surge, hispanics were hit the hardest, suffering an outsize share of deaths, driven by infections in texas and florida.
by winter, during the third and most lethal stage, the virus had gripped the entire nation, and racial gaps in weekly death rates had narrowed so much that whites were the worst off, followed closely by hispanics.
now, even as the outbreak ebbs and more people get vaccinated, a racial gap appears to be emerging again, with black americans dying at higher rates than other groups.
overall, black and hispanic americans have less access to medical care and are in poorer health, with higher rates of conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure.
they are also more likely to have jobs deemed essential, less able to work from home and more likely to live in crowded, multigenerational households, where working family members are apt to expose others to the virus.
black people account for 15 per cent of all covid-19 deaths where race is known, while hispanics represent 19 per cent, whites 61 per cent and asian americans 4 per cent.
those figures are close to the groups' share of the us population black people at 12 per cent, hispanics 18 per cent, whites 60 per cent and asians 6 per cent but adjusting for age yields a clearer picture of the unequal burden.
because blacks and hispanics are younger on average than whites, it would stand to reason that they would be less likely to die from a disease that has been brutal to the elderly.
but that's not what is happening.
instead, the centers for disease control and prevention, adjusting for population age differences, estimates that native americans, latinos and blacks are two to three times more likely than white people to die of covid-19.
also, the ap analysis found that latinos are dying at much younger ages than other groups.
thirty-seven per cent of hispanic deaths were of those under 65, versus 12 per cent for white americans and 30 per cent for black people.
hispanic people between 30 and 39 like ramos have died at five times the rate of white people in the same age group.
public health experts see these disparities as a loud message that the nation needs to address deep-rooted inequities.
"if we want to respect the dear price that 600,000 people have paid, don't return to normal.
return to something that is better than what was," said dr clyde yancy, vice dean for diversity and inclusion at northwestern university's medical school in chicago.
he added: "it will be an epic fail if we simply go back to whatever we call normal.
"ramos had asthma and diabetes and had quit his job as a chef at red lobster before the pandemic because of diabetes-related trouble with his feet.
he died during the devastating winter surge that hit latinos hard, and the rest of his household of seven in watsonville, an agricultural city of around 54,000 people about 90 miles south of san francisco, also got sick.
that included his toddler daughter; the family matriarch, 70-year-old mercedes ramos; and his girlfriend, who was the only one in the household working and the first to get infected, bringing home the virus from her job managing a marijuana dispensary, according to family members.
mother and son were admitted to the same hospital, their rooms nearby.
they would video chat or call each other every day.
"he would tell me he loved me very much and that he wanted me to get better and that he was doing fine, but he was telling me that so i wouldn't worry," mercedes ramos said in spanish, her voice breaking.
she has since returned to her job picking strawberries.
gaps in vaccination rates in the us also persist, with blacks and hispanics lagging behind, said samantha artiga of the kaiser family foundation, a nonpartisan health-policy research organisation.
experts say several factors could be at work, including deep distrust of the medical establishment among black americans because of a history of discriminatory treatment, and fears of deportation among latinos, as well as a language barrier in many cases.
the us was averaging about 870,000 injections per day in early june, down sharply from a high of about 3.
3 million a day on average in mid-april, according to the cdc.
initial vaccine eligibility policies, set by states, favoured older americans, a group more likely to be white.
now, everyone over 12 is eligible, but obstacles remain, such as concerns about missing work because of side effects from the shot.
"eligibility certainly does not equal access," artiga said.
"losing a day or two of wages can have real consequences for your family.
people are facing tough decisions like that.
"the ap's analysis of the outbreak's racial and ethnic patterns was based on national center for health statistics data on covid-19 deaths and 2019 census bureau population estimates.
it's less clear who is dying now, but the still-incomplete data suggests a gap has emerged again.
in michigan, black people are 14 per cent of the population but accounted for 25 per cent of the 1,064 deaths reported in the past four weeks, according to the most recent available state data.
similar gaps were seen in florida and pennsylvania.
"for people of colour like myself, we've had deep personal experiences during the pandemic" of caring for loved ones and sometimes losing them, said yolanda ogbolu, a nurse researcher at the university of maryland, baltimore.
ogbolu, who is black, made herself an advocate for two relatives during their covid-19 hospital stays: her 50-year-old police officer brother she persuaded his doctors to treat him with the drug remdesivir and her 59-year-old repairman uncle.
she called the hospital daily during his 100-day stay.
both survived.
but ogbolu wonders whether they would have lived if they hadn't had a nurse in the family.
"what happens when people don't have that person to push for them?
what happens when you don't even speak the language?"
ogbolu said.
"what happens when they don't know how to navigate the health system or what questions to ask?
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
ever had a nightmare of being eaten alive?
it almost came true for a lobster diver.
michael packard was swallowed by a humpback whale on june 11, off cape cod, massachusetts, when he was diving for lobsters.
after jumping off his vessel and diving 14 meters deep into the sea, he felt a "huge bump and everything went dark around [him]".
he thought he was attacked by a great white shark, which was common around the area, but realised that there were no teeth around him and that he did not feel any pain.
in an interview with cbs boston, he said: "and then i realised: 'oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth and he's trying to swallow me.
this is it, i'm going die'".
he was in the creature's mouth for about 30 seconds, packard said.
the whale then suddenly emerged to the surface, started shaking its head, and spat him out.
packard was then hauled back onto the boat by his crewmate who had been scanning the water for air bubbles from his oxygen respirator.
[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cp_hyf2jhlp/[/embed]despite the scare, the lobster diver said in a facebook post the following day: "i am very bruised up but have no broken bones.
"he only suffered a suspected dislocated knee and bruises on his legs from the incident and was soon rescued by the provincetown fire department.
such human-whale encounters are rare, a whale expert told cape cod times, as humpback whales, which feed mainly on krill and fish, are not aggressive.
packard's experience is likely to be accidental, as the whales "do what we call gulp feeding, and they can open their mouths up incredibly widely," experts told nbc boston.
also read: whale nearly swallows south african conservationistxavierpoh@asiaone.
com
a top chinese virologist facing scrutiny amid theories the covid pandemic could have originated in her lab has dismissed the concerns as "filth" being poured on an "innocent scientist".
in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, shi zhengli, a scientist at the wuhan institute of virology (wiv), has been praised for helping her country curb the spread of the virus, while also being at the centre of swirling conspiracy theories over its origins.
addressing the claims, the virologist, who has been dubbed "bat woman" by some, told the new york times there was "no evidence" to support the allegations against her lab.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
she said.
in a text message, she also reportedly wrote: "i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist.
"the idea that covid-19 could have escaped from a lab has long been dismissed by members of the scientific community, while others have derided such theories due to their connection with former president donald trump.
however, calls from his successor, president joe biden, for a transparent investigation into the origins of covid-19 have brought the theory back under the spotlight.
and with world health organization (who) director-general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus saying during a g7 briefing on the pandemic that "every hypothesis should be open" in the bid to understand the origins of covid-19, it seems all lines of inquiry are on the table.
scientists still generally appear to agree that there is no clear evidence to support the possibility of a lab leak leading to the spread of covid-19.
however, calls for a thorough and transparent investigation have been backed by members of the scientific community, particularly in the wake of reports citing american intelligence of several employees of the wiv falling ill as the pandemic began to take root.
dr shi has denied that several of her colleagues were ill before the outbreak's emergence, according to the times.
the chinese government has also not given any indication that dr shi's lab is under any degree of suspicion in connection with the coronavirus outbreak.
the virologist has been able to continue her work and give lectures in the country.
in a recent letter in the journal science, 18 scientists called for a transparent investigation to look into all possible scenarios, including the possibility of a lab leak.
the letter also stresses the importance of a "dispassionate science-based discourse" on the origins of the covid-19 pandemic, with researchers noting the rise of "anti-asian sentiment in some countries" in the midst of the pandemic.
"in this time of unfortunate anti-asian sentiment in some countries, we note that at the beginning of the pandemic, it was chinese doctors, scientists, journalists, and citizens who shared with the world crucial information about the spread of the virus – often at great personal cost," the letter states.
"we should show the same determination in promoting a dispassionate science-based discourse on this difficult but important issue," researchers write.
speaking with the times, david relman a microbiologist at stanford university who co-authored the letter, said: "this has nothing to do with fault or guilt.
""it's just bigger than any one scientist or institute or any one country – anybody anywhere who has data of this sort needs to put it out there," he said.
read moreworkers push back against hospitals requiring covid vaccinesus bans dogs brought in from 100 countries with rabies riskus intel report warns of more violence by qanon followerschristopher sign broke story of tarmac meeting between bill clinton and ag loretta lynch during 2016 campaign between hillary and trumpthe first-of-its kind heavy launcher aims to carry the first in a series of missions to bring humans back to the moon by 2024. have you considered how you'll withdraw your retirement income?
these simple mistakes could cost you thousands of dollars.
new species could have been close to seven metres in length, scientists sayazeem ahktar, 29, was jailed for eight years at harrow crown court after admitting a range of offences following a traffic stop that led to police finding a sub-machine gun and ammunition, drugs and cash at his address in brent.
a 76-year-old man who had 39 wives and 94 children and was said to be the head of the world's largest family has died in north east india, the chief minister of his home state said.
ziona chana, the head of a local christian sect that allows polygamy, died on sunday, zoramthanga, the chief minister of mizoram and who goes by one name, said in a tweet.
with a total of 167 members, the family is the world's largest, according to local media, although this depends on whether you count the grandchildren, of whom ziona has 33. read this before going solar in texas.
[you'll likely qualify!
]fox news sundayfox news anchor chris wallace confronted former secretary of state mike pompeo on sunday over the lack of hard evidence provided by the trump administration to prove that covid-19 originated from a chinese lab, telling pompeo he had "almost a year" to prove the theory.
with circumstantial evidence indicating that it is possible that the virus behind a worldwide pandemic could have leaked out of a lab in wuhan, president joe biden has called for the intelligence community to "redoub"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gain-of-function experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she told the new york times.
heart disease is the leading cause of mortality around the world, with heart attacks and strokes accounting for roughly a third of all deaths each year.
and according to new data released this week by the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), last year saw record high numbers of heart-related deaths.
"in raw numbers, there were about 32,000 more heart disease deaths than the year before," nbc news reported, citing the cdc's data.
while the health authority offered its statistics withoget a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
the charm meson has a light and heavy version that helps distinguish between its matter and antimatter statesthe inherited piece features pearls and diamonds.
americans michael taylor and peter taylor pleaded guilty in a tokyo court monday to helping former nissan chair carlos ghosn escape japan in a box aboard a plane in 2019, per the wall street journal.
the big picture: ghosn was awaiting trial in tokyo on financial misconduct charges following his 2018 arrest when he fled to lebanon.
he denies any wrongdoing.
get market news worthy of your time with axios markets.
subscribe for free.
michael taylor, a 60-year-old private security specialist and formeif you pay more than $99/month for power and own a home in texas, you better read this.
evidence that includes newly unearthed chinese government video continues to mount indicating the wuhan institute of virology studied live bats in its lab, despite longtime lab collaborator peter daszak calling this a "conspiracy theory.
"texas hospital employees filed suit over the requirement that they get the shot or they'd lose their jobs, comparing the vaccine to nazi atrocities.
former president's campaign staff has sent cease and desist letters to candidates claiming they have his supportmagtein® is a magnesium supplement clinically proven to cross the blood-brain barrier and enhance memory, focus and attention.
try risk free!trevor reed has been imprisoned in russia for nearly two yearsbarbara starr has called on the biden administration to introduce new protections for journaliststhe children were ages 1 to 10, and the youngest has serious injuries, according to the south carolina highway patrol.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everone hundred-fifty people were evacuated following the deadly accident in the city of shiyan in hubei province, it said, of which 37 are critically injured.
the explosion caused a food market building to collapse at 6:30 a. m. , local media reported.
footage from cctv shows wreckage and shattered glass covering the first floor of the collapsed building, where people were having breakfast and buying groceries when explosion happened.
people can be seen walking in a rubble-strewn street between damaged buildings.
hospitals in shiyan are asking residents to donate blood, as the injured are still under emergency treatment, cctv said.
the wily kentucky senator used similar tactics during the obama administrationthe suspect drove into a crowd gathered in the minneapolis neighborhood where a black man was shot to death by sheriff's deputies this month.
newquay, england: us president joe biden on sunday (jun 13) said the united states had restored its presence on the world stage as he used his first overseas trip since taking office to connect with a new generation of leaders from some of the world's most powerful countries and more closely unite allies on addressing the coronavirus pandemic and china's trade and labour practices.
as he wrapped three days of what he called "an extraordinarily collaborative and productive meeting" at the group of seven summit of wealthy democracies, biden said there was "genuine enthusiasm" for his engagement.
"america's back in the business of leading the world alongside nations who share our most deeply held values," biden said at a news conference before leaving cornwall to visit queen elizabeth ii at windsor castle.
"i think we've made progress in re-establishing american credibility among our closest friends.
"the president, who is on an eight-day, three country trip, left his mark on the g7 by announcing a commitment to share500 million coronavirus vaccine doseswith the world and pressing allies to do the same.
the leaders on sunday confirmed their intent todonate more than 1 billion dosesto low-income countries in the next year.
"this is going to be a constant project for a long time," biden said of the global vaccination campaign, adding that he hoped the world could stamp out the pandemic in 2022 or 2023.
"it's not just the right thing to do" from a moral standpoint, biden said, but also the correct thing to do "in terms of our own health".
he also said the us might be able to donate an additional 1 billion vaccine doses to the world in the coming years.
biden also fought for the leaders' joint statement to include specific language criticising china's use of forced labour and other human rights abuses as he worked to cast the rivalry with beijing as the defining competition for the 21st century.
the president declined to discuss the private negotiations over the provision, but said he was "satisfied" with the tough rhetoric, though difference remained among the allies about how forcefully to call out beijing.
the leaders also embraced biden's call for a 15 per cent global minimum corporate tax rate.
the other g7 allies did their part in creating the impression that biden was part of "the club" and sought to help reinforce biden's "america is back" mantra, including by embracing the his campaign slogan to "build back better" from the pandemic.
most european allies had been disenchanted with president donald trump's grumbling of "global freeloaders" and espousing an "america first" policy, so biden had the challenge of convincing a sceptical audience that the last us administration was not a harbinger of a more insular country.
"we're totally on the same page," british prime minister boris johnson said of biden.
implicitly criticising his predecessor, who had said other countries should pay for the presence of america's military presence abroad, biden said he does not view nato as a "protection racket".
biden also reported that global leaders were gratified that the us president accepted the science of climate change.
"one of the things some of my colleagues said to me when i was there was, 'well, the united states' leadership recognises there is global warming," biden said.
the president was ending his day brussels for meetings with nato and european union leaders on monday and tuesday before his summit with russian president vladimir putin on wednesday in geneva.
us officials said that one-on-one meeting would test whether the two men could develop a constructive relationship even as biden was poised to rebuke putin for a range of rights abuses and election interference.
pressed at the news conference on why putin has not changed his behavior after waves of us sanctions, biden replied with a laugh.
"he's vladimir putin.
"the summit marked some of biden's first face-to-face meetings with global leaders since taking office in january amid the covid-19 pandemic, including france's emmanuel macron, with whom he was meeting for the first time.
the 43-year-old macron, who came into office in may 2017, months after biden's two terms as the us vice president ended, appeared to have quick chemistry with the 78-year-old american.
the two draped their arms around each other and chatted animatedly when they walked together after the leaders' photo at the beginning of friday's summit.
in remarks to reporters, macron did not utter trump's name but offered an unambiguous shot at the former president.
macron noted his his relief that with biden, he was now working with an american president "willing to cooperate.
""what you demonstrate is leadership is partnership," macron said of biden.
during trump's term, macron tried to find common ground but often bristled at trump's nativist rhetoric.
macron, who has worked to portray france as a more prominent power in recent years, also used the rise of trumpism to make the case for greater global european leadership.
he complained in november 2019 that a lack of us leadership was causing the "brain death" of nato, insisting in an interview with the economist that the european union must step up and start acting as a strategic world power.
biden, in his remarks, seemed to acknowledge macron's concerns, noting that western europe was providing "backbone and the support for nato".
biden administration officials said biden hoped to leave the summit on sunday with a communique that included language calling out china over forced labour of muslims and ethnic minorities in western china.
but as talks continued on saturday, leaders said that differences remained.
the leaders broadly agreed that greater coordination on china was necessary, according to an administration official who observed some of the talks and briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.
the official said it became evident that there was a "spectrum of how far different countries are willing to go".
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed the biden administration's position, while germany, italy and european show hesitancy, according to the official.
white house officials say biden wants the g7 nations to speak with one voice on the china's human rights abuse.
"we need to be able to deal with china in all of those areas coming from a position of strength and coming from a united position. "
us secretary of state anthony blinken told cbs news' face the nation on sunday.
"i think what the president was able to do in these last couple of days was bring countries closer together in dealing with some of the challenges posed by china.
"during the summit, biden also met with italian prime minister mario draghi, japanese prime minister yoshihide suga and president cyril ramaphosa of south africa.
at the news conference, biden briefly confused syria and libya when he described the importance of providing humanitarian aid to countries torn apart by civil war.
it was among a handful of verbal stumbles the president made.
biden then left on his way to windsor castle for a private audience with the queen becoming the 13th president to have met with the 95-year-old monarch.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there have been 157 reports here of suspected reactions to the covid-19 vaccine severe enough to be life-threatening or result in hospitalisation, among other serious conditions.
however, no deaths have been linked to the jab, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
these "suspected serious adverse events" made up 0.
004 per cent of the almost 3.
7 million doses of pfizer-biontech and moderna jabs administered till may 23. these serious cases form part of the 4,704 "suspected adverse events reports" that hsa received till may 23. this translates into 0.
13 per cent of administered doses, which is consistent with the percentage that had been reported by the authority on may 6, when it last gave an update on the safety record of both mrna vaccines on may 6. these reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but may not have been caused by them.
an adverse event  or reaction related to vaccination is any undesirable medical condition that occurs after taking the vaccine, which does not necessarily have a direct link to the treatment.
they may be coincidental or related to an undiagnosed disease, but have to be reported by healthcare providers to hsa.
reactions are considered serious if they result in hospitalisation, disability or life-threatening illnesses, among other things.
anaphylaxis, which is the rapid onset of severe allergic reactions, was the most frequently reported serious adverse event, with 26 such cases.
all of them recovered after medical treatment, hsa said.
it added that the incidence rate of anaphylaxis reported here with the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines is about 0.
85 cases for every 100,000 doses of the jabs administered.
"this is similar to the incidence rates reported overseas of around 0.
5 to two per 100,000 doses administered," said hsa.
other severe allergic reactions numbered 23.  these include breathing difficulty, fast heart rate, an increase or decrease in blood pressure, chest discomfort and pain, fainting, limb numbness and weakness or pain, changes in vision, increase in liver enzymes, joint pain, fits, ringing in the ears and infections.
the authority said most of those who had developed serious adverse events have recovered or are recovering.
"these serious adverse events are being closely monitored by hsa," it added.
hsa said that the most commonly reported reactions are consistent with those typically observed following vaccination.
from the 4,704 reactions, the most common one was cases of rash, which accounted for more than one in four reported adverse events.
this was followed by cases of swelling of eyelids, face or lips, which occurred in about one in seven cases.
these are typically resolved within a few days and are in line with the events described in the covid-19 vaccines product information, as well as those reported overseas.
most of adverse events were associated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine, which was rolled out for use here on dec 30 last year and comprised 83 per cent of the doses administered.
moderna was deployed on march 12 this year.
about 68 per cent of the total number of reactions reported was among people below the age of 60. hsa pointed out that trials of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines found that those younger than 60 tend to experience more adverse effects occurring soon after vaccination, compared with those older.
generally, younger people have more active immune responses and may experience more adverse effects to the vaccines, said hsa.
it pointed out that this is part of the body's natural response to build immunity against covid-19 infection.
the authority added that 64 per cent of these reactions were reported in females.
its update also noted that a greater frequency of heart attacks and strokes has not been observed in vaccinated persons locally.
this comes after it was announced on friday that six people have been reported to have suffered heart inflammation after receiving covid-19 vaccines four of whom were men aged below 30. as a precaution, experts have advised that vaccinated people, especially adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"it is important to note that heart attacks and strokes can occur naturally within our population, regardless of whether people are vaccinated or not," said hsa.
"due to the large numbers of people being vaccinated, it is expected that, by coincidence, some individuals may experience other medical events such as heart attacks and strokes in the days or weeks after vaccination which may not be related to the vaccination.
"hsa said it is monitoring the incidence of anaphylaxis and bell's palsy, which are adverse events historically reported with vaccines.
there have been 45 reported cases of bell's palsy, which causes temporary weakness or paralysis of facial muscles.
most of the cases were not serious, hsa said, and patients will generally have completely recovery even without treatment.
the incidence rate for this reaction in singapore is estimated to be 3.
35 per 100,000 persons per month.
hsa said that this is within the background incidence of 1.
1 to 4.
4 per 100,000 persons per month before the introduction of vaccination.
the authority said that it, along with the ministry of health, will continue to monitor the safety of covid-19 vaccines closely and update the public on any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic, hsa added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: around 10 customers were gathered outside the rich & good cake shop outlet at jewel changi airport a few minutes before it opened for business on monday (jun 14).
it had been more than a month since the shop was shuttered, when jewel and the passenger terminals at changi airport were closed to the public in may to control a growing cluster of covid-19 cases.
jewel was initially slated to reopen on may 27, but the closure wasextendedby the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) as an "added precaution".
"(the crowd) is actually slightly more than what we expected, we were expecting it to be totally empty because dine-in is still not allowed," said ms jerelyn foo, the company's media and operations manager.
"but it's definitely less compared to what we had before the closure," she added.
at burger chain shake shack, which typically sees long queues during peak hours, food delivery riders as well as customers were spotted waiting in line for their food inside the restaurant.
in contrast, luxury watch retailer sincere watch's outlet at jewel was largely empty, when cna visited the mall between 11.
30am to 3pm.
"i'm not surprised because it's just the first day of reopening and consumers just got to know about this so it will take time for them to gain confidence to come back to the mall and spend again," said mr kenneth tan, the company's senior operations manager.
meanwhile, a small handful of moviegoers trickled in and out of shaw theatres jewel.
"it's a typical monday morning, so obviously it's quite quiet," said mr mark shaw, director of shaw organisation.
"we're just really happy to be open and we expect, hopefully, with some decent marketing from jewel and our team, as well as some of the bigger hollywood blockbusters coming online in the next couple of weeks, that business will pick up," he added.
jewel extends rental support for tenantson monday, jewel announced that it would extend full rental waiver by an additional week until jun 20.  previously, it was only for the period of the mall's closure.
between jun 21 and jun 27, jewel tenants will also receive rental "assistance", according to the mall.
it did not specify how much assistance would be provided.
the additional support was welcomed by tenants cna spoke to, who said that it would take some time before shoppers returned.
"i expect that it will take a month or two to have the business back on track .
.
.
but we're quite positive about the sales going back to what we used to have, especially when the dine-in resumes," said ms cami soh, director of operations at shake shack singapore.
enhanced safety measuresas of jun 13, 108 cases have been linked to changi airport, which remains the country's largest active cluster.
thelast three reported caseswere on may 23, which includes a seven-year-old singaporean boy who is a student at st stephen's school.
last month, a 95-year-old woman linked to the clusterdied from complicationsdue to the coronavirus.
to minimise the risk of transmission, jewel is now part of asegregated zoning systemimplemented by changi airport, which segregates 14,000 airport workers into three distinct zones based on risk level.
jewel changi airport is under zone 3 the lowest risk group.
this means that airport workers from zone 1, which has the highest risk of exposure, will not be allowed to enter jewel during their shifts.
during the closure period, thorough cleaning and disinfection works were carried out.
more than 2,500 workers at jewel took the mandatory covid-19 test and none tested positive, according to jewel.
it added that close to 90 per cent of eligible jewel staff have taken at least one dose of the vaccine so far.
attracting visitorsto draw shoppers back, jewel is offering free parking until jul 11.  it is also working on new programmes and promotions, which will be shared at a later date.
"we are cognisant that it will take time to ramp up footfall at jewel, as singapore cautiously moves into phase 3 (heightened alert) with a gradual easing of restrictions," ms hung.
"with enhanced precautionary measures in place and staff well-trained to ensure that all measures are adhered to, we hope to welcome our guests back again to a sparkling jewel experience soon.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore (the business times) the ong family controlling the lian beng civil engineering and construction group on monday (june 14) announced a mandatory conditional cash offer at 50 cents per share, following a married deal.
the family had, through its investment holding company ong sek chong & sons, acquired nearly 5.
9 million shares, or about 1.
2 per cent of the total number of issued and paid-up ordinary shares issued by lian beng group.
prior to the market acquisition, ong sek chong & sons and its concert parties held about 43.
6 per cent of voting rights in lian beng.
with its recent acquisition of more than 1 per cent of shares in lian beng, it was required to extend a mandatory offer.
the offer price represents a premium on the last traded price of 47 cents last friday, the last trading day, the announcement said.
on monday morning, shares of lian beng were trading at 48.
5 cents, up 3.
2 per cent or 1.
5 cents, before the group called for a trading halt pending the release of the announcement.
ong sek chong & sons has an issued and paid-up share capital of $100,000 comprising 100,000 ordinary shares, of which 40 per cent are held by mr ong pang aik, chairman and managing director of lian beng; 36 per cent by executive director ong lay huan ; 12 per cent by ms ong lay koon, another executive director at lian beng; and the remaining 12 per cent by ms ong lee yap.
the former three shareholders, along with mr ong phang hui and mr ong phang hoo, sit on ong sek chong & sons' board of directors.
the trading volume of lian beng's shares has been generally low, the announcement said, with an average daily trading volume of 241,529 shares, or 0.
05 per cent of total issued shares, in the one-month period up to and including the last full trading day prior to the announcement.
the ongs intend to maintain lian beng's listing status and do not intend to exercise any rights of compulsory acquisition.
ong sek chong & sons has confirmed with the securities industry council of singapore that it will not be required to make an offer for slb development, of which lian beng owns some 708.
1 million, or about 77.
6 per cent, of issued and paid-up ordinary shares.
it will not be making an offer for slb development in connection with the offer, which, if it becomes unconditional, will result in ong sek chong & sons acquiring statutory control and indirectly acquiring effective control of slb development.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the exponential spread of the delta variant, and the uncertainties surrounding it, mean pausing the roadmap is justifiedlast modified on mon 14 jun 2021 19.
35 edtsince february, when boris johnson unveiled a four-step roadmap to ending all covid restrictions in england, progress has been steady and at times relatively serene compared with the periods of abject confusion and chaos that went before.
the successful rollout of the vaccination programme allowed targets to be met, including the substantial "step three" easing of restrictions on 17 may.
but as boris johnson recognised in his press conference today, the spread of the new delta variant – which now accounts for 96% of covid cases in the united kingdom – has upended calculations.
latest data suggests it is 40-80% more transmissible than the alpha variant, which originated in kent.
the variant partly evades vaccines and appears to increase the risk of hospitalisation.
hospital admission rates are increasing by 50% a week and 61% in the north-west.
a significant third wave is thus under way and the government's scientific advisers do not know the extent to which current rates of vaccination and acquired immunity will keep it in check.
a summer surge in hospitalisations could overwhelm an already overstretched nhs.
the prime minister is therefore right to opt for caution by delaying the lifting of all covid restrictions until 19 july, reviewing the data in two weeks' time.
the roadmap has encountered a significant new hazard and, as mr johnson put it: "now is the time to ease off the accelerator. "
given that significant unlocking has already taken place, it must be hoped this pause is enough to put the brakes on the new wave.
it will allow vital progress to be made in administering millions of second vaccine doses, which greatly increase protection against the delta variant.
it will also allow time to focus on reaching the 2 million or so over-50s who have still not been fully vaccinated, and to speed up second doses for the under-40s.
this will save lives.
by late july, schools will be breaking up for the summer, further reducing transmission risk.
even so, it seems likely that there will be another fraught review of data next month, in order to assess whether the link between infection and hospitalisation has been sufficiently broken to fully unlock.
the delay is, of course, another bitter blow for the hospitality industry and the arts.
theatres, restaurants, pubs, concert venues and nightclubs, after haemorrhaging cash for more than a year, have spent money that they haven't got preparing for a full reopening next week.
many businesses are teetering on the edge of the abyss and some will now go under.
the level of the government's support should reflect the extent of the restrictions it continues to impose.
instead, the treasury is sticking to its plan to scale down the furlough scheme and business rate relief, ramping the financial pressure up still further.
this is shortsighted and unfair.
far more needs to be done to address the dire predicament of much-loved institutions, many of them independently owned and part of the fabric of their communities.
there was at least some limited good news for those who planned summer nuptials on the presumption that all restrictions would be lifted.
mr johnson announced the current cap on 30 guests will still be lifted for weddings and for funerals, though other restrictions and social distancing will remain in place.
the delta variant has cast a shadow over the summer.
but given the greater risks it has unleashed, and its virulence, mr johnson was right to heed the scientific advice and press the pause button for the time being.
as sir patrick vallance suggested today, the vaccination programme is now in a race with a faster-spreading variant.
the four-week delay is necessary to help it win that crucial contest.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a singaporean man who had worked for china's intelligence services since 2016 has been detained for two years under the internal security act (isa) for being a threat to singapore.
dickson yeo, 40, had acted as a paid agent of a foreign state, said the internal security department (isd) on tuesday (june 15).
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year (2020), after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
yeo was issued an order of detention under the isa on jan 29.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains," said the department.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said that yeo was tasked to source information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
he had approached various individuals in singapore to try and obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports.
yeo had set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities, as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
"he had also tried, but failed, to secure employment in the singapore government sector to further his information-gathering activities.
yeo had carried out these activities over a period from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019," said isd.
the department said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's continued detention is necessary to allow isd to find out the full extent of his activities.
during a trip to beijing in 2015, yeo was recruited by chinese agents who claimed to represent think-tanks.
he was studying for a doctorate at the lee kuan yew school of public policy at the national university of singapore at that time.
he was arrested by the isd on dec 30 last year, after he was deported to singapore from the united states upon completion of a 14-month jail term for spying for china in the us.
us court documents show he admitted to being offered money in exchange for political reports and information, initially on south-east asia, before focusing on the us.
he also made numerous trips to meet the chinese agents he was in contact with, trawled social networking sites to find targets and was also directed to set up a fake consulting firm, resolute consulting the same name as a renowned us firm.
he registered the company in singapore in early 2018 and got more than 400 resumes, mostly american military and government staff with security clearances.
he then got a post as a visiting scholar at george washington university in washington and travelled to the us to continue his efforts.
living in the washington area from january 2019 to july 2019, yeo exploited networking opportunities in the area to spot and assess individuals from whom he could extract information.
he was questioned by immigration officers at the john f.  kennedy airport in new york, when he returned to the us in november 2019. spooked, he booked a flight to return the next day, when he was approached by federal bureau of investigation agents.
he agreed to be interviewed and was taken into custody.
news of yeo's arrest and guilty plea was announced last july and he was sentenced last october.
he maintained before the court that he was supportive of the chinese cause and claimed that he did not betray singapore.
when announcing his arrest upon returning to singapore, isd said yeo had revealed to us investigators that his previous intelligence taskings targeted other states apart from the us.
"the singapore government takes a very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government and engages in activities at the behest of the foreign power that is inimical to our national security and interests, including bilateral relations," said the isd on tuesday.
case timeline
2015
dickson yeo, who is enrolled as a phd student at the lee kuan yew school of public policy, travels to beijing to give a presentation on south-east asia politics.
there, he is recruited by chinese intelligence operatives.
2015
yeo uses a professional networking website to contact and recruit a civilian working with the us air force on the f-35 fighter jet programme.
the civilian writes a report for yeo and gives him information on the geopolitical implications of japan purchasing f-35 aircraft from the us.
2018 
yeo creates a fake consulting company to harvest resumes from us military and government employees with access to sensitive information.
between 2018 and  2019: 
yeo recruits a us state department employee and pays him to write a report about an unnamed member of the us cabinet.
january to july 2019 
he moves to washington dc to network with people and tries to recruit them.
his linkedin profile lists him as a doctoral fellow at the george washington university during this time.
november 2019
yeo returns to the us to ask a us army officer working at the pentagon to provide classified information.
he is stopped and arrested after landing at the airport.
july 24, 2020 
yeo pleads guilty to one charge of acting within the u s as an illegal agent of a foreign power.
oct 9, 2020
yeo's sentencing hearing is scheduled.
he receives a 14-month jail sentence, with the 11 months he had spent in jail  credited toward his sentencedec 30, 2020
yeo is deported to singapore from the united states and arrested by the isd.
jan 29, 2020
an order of detention under the isa is issued against yeo for acting as a paid agent of a foreign state.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
there have been 157 reports here of suspected reactions to the covid-19 vaccines severe enough to be life-threatening or result in hospitalisation, among other serious conditions.
however, no deaths have been linked to the jab, the health sciences authority (hsa) said last friday.
these "suspected serious adverse events" made up 0.
004 per cent of the almost 3.
7 million doses of pfizer-biontech and moderna jabs administered till may 23. these serious cases form part of the 4,704 "suspected adverse event reports" that hsa received till may 23.  these translate into 0.
13 per cent of administered doses, which is consistent with the percentage that had been reported by the authority on may 6, when it last gave an update on the safety record of both mrna vaccines.
these reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but may not have been caused by them.
an adverse event or reaction related to vaccination is any undesirable medical condition that occurs after taking the vaccine, which does not necessarily have a direct link to the treatment.
they may be coincidental or related to an undiagnosed disease, but have to be reported by healthcare providers to hsa.
reactions are considered serious if they result in hospitalisation, disability or life-threatening illnesses, among other things.
anaphylaxis, which is the rapid onset of severe allergic reactions, was the most frequently reported serious adverse event, with 26 such cases.
all of them recovered after medical treatment, hsa said.
it added that the incidence rate of anaphylaxis reported here with the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines is about 0.
85 cases for every 100,000 doses administered.
"this is similar to the incidence rates reported overseas of around 0.
5 to two per 100,000 doses administered," said hsa.
other severe allergic reactions numbered 23.  these include breathing difficulty, fast heart rate, an increase or decrease in blood pressure, chest discomfort and pain, fainting, limb numbness and weakness or pain, changes in vision, increase in liver enzymes, joint pain, fits, ringing in the ears and infections.
the authority said most of those who had developed serious adverse events have recovered or are recovering.
"these serious adverse events are being closely monitored by hsa," it added.
hsa said that the most commonly reported reactions are consistent with those typically observed following vaccination.
from the 4,704 reactions, the most common one was cases of rash, which accounted for more than one in four reported adverse events.
this was followed by cases of swelling of eyelids, face or lips, which occurred in about one in seven cases.
these are typically resolved within a few days and are in line with the events described in the vaccines' product information, as well as those reported overseas.
most of the adverse events were associated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine, which was rolled out for use here on dec 30 last year and comprised 83 per cent of the doses administered.
moderna was deployed on march 12 this year.
about 68 per cent of the total number of reactions reported were among people below the age of 60. hsa pointed out that trials of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines found that those younger than 60 tend to experience more adverse effects occurring soon after vaccination, compared with those who are older.
generally, younger people have more active immune responses and may experience more adverse effects, said hsa.
it pointed out that this is part of the body's natural response to build immunity against covid-19 infection.
the authority added that 64 per cent of these reactions were reported in females.
its update also noted that a greater frequency of heart attacks and strokes has not been observed in vaccinated persons locally.
this comes after it was announced last friday that six people were reported to have suffered heart inflammation after receiving covid-19 vaccines four of whom were men aged below 30. as a precaution, experts have advised that vaccinated people, especially adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"it is important to note that heart attacks and strokes can occur naturally within our population, regardless of whether people are vaccinated or not," said hsa.
"due to the large numbers of people being vaccinated, it is expected that, by coincidence, some individuals may experience other medical events such as heart attacks and strokes in the days or weeks after vaccination which may not be related to the vaccination.
"hsa said it is monitoring the incidence of anaphylaxis and bell's palsy, which are adverse events historically reported with vaccines.
there have been 45 reported cases of bell's palsy, which causes temporary weakness or paralysis of facial muscles.
most of the cases were not serious, hsa said, and patients will generally have complete recovery even without treatment.
the incidence rate for this reaction in singapore is estimated to be 3.
35 per 100,000 persons per month.
hsa said that this is within the background incidence of 1.
1 to 4.
4 per 100,000 persons per month before the introduction of vaccination.
the authority said that it, along with the ministry of health, will continue to monitor the safety of covid-19 vaccines closely and update the public on any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic, hsa added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
michael and peter taylor tell tokyo court of their part in spiriting away executive in musical instrument caselast modified on mon 14 jun 2021 17.
40 edttwo americans charged with helping former nissan chair carlos ghosn flee japan while he was facing accusations of financial misconduct have told a court that they took part in a scheme for him to escape the country.
statements by michael taylor and his son, peter, on the opening day of their trial in tokyo suggested the pair don't plan to fight charges of assisting a criminal, which carry a possible penalty of up to three years in prison.
keiji isaji, one of the attorneys for the taylors, told the associated press after the court session that he wants the trial to "proceed efficiently".
he said ending the trial quickly is "in the best interests of his clients".
he declined to confirm his team was hoping for a suspended sentence if they are convicted, meaning no time would be served.
he stressed the decision was up to the judge.
the taylors appeared calm as they were led into the courtroom in handcuffs, with ropes tied around their waists.
they said little except to answer the judge's questions when asked about simultaneous interpreting relayed through headphones.
prosecutors read out a statement accusing michael taylor, a former green beret, and peter taylor of arranging to hide ghosn in a musical equipment case.
it was loaded on to a private jet that flew him from the western city of osaka to lebanon via turkey in december 2019. ryozo kitajima, one of the prosecutors, said peter taylor met ghosn at a hotel several times in 2019 and introduced ghosn to his father.
he said peter taylor received $562,500 in two transfers to pay for chartering the jet and other expenses.
peter taylor arranged for ghosn to change his clothing at a tokyo hotel.
his father and another man, george-antoine zayek, later accompanied ghosn to the osaka airport, kitajima said.
zayek has not been arrested.
the prosecutors said bitcoins worth $500,000 were transferred from ghosn's son anthony's account to peter taylor in 2020, purportedly to cover the taylors' defence costs.
prosecutors said that during their detention the taylors had expressed remorse and that the pair had been misled to believe helping someone to jump bail was not illegal in japan.
they said ghosn's wife, carole, told them ghosn was being tortured.
the prosecutors quoted the taylors as saying they were not tortured and were treated in a way that was "fair and professional".
the trial's next session is set for 29 june, when prosecutors will continue their questioning.
the taylors were arrested in massachusetts last year and extradited to japan in march.
ghosn has french, lebanese and brazilian citizenship and lebanon has no extradition treaty with japan.
the authorities say ghosn paid the taylors at least $1.
3m (£920,000).
ghosn led nissan motor co for two decades before his arrest in 2018.  he was charged with falsifying securities reports in under-reporting his compensation and of breach of trust in using nissan money for personal gain.
he says he is innocent and says he fled japan because he did not expect to get a fair trial.
more than 99% of criminal cases in japan result in convictions.
no japanese executives have been charged in the scandal at nissan, the yokohama-based manufacturer of the leaf electric car, march subcompact and infiniti luxury models.
extraditions between japan and the us are relatively rare, even for serious crimes.
the possible penalty of three years in prison is the minimum required for an extradition.
before his arrest, ghosn was an motor industry star, having orchestrated nissan's rebound from the brink of bankruptcy after he was sent to japan by its french alliance partner renault in 1999. ghosn's pay was halved, by about 1 billion yen ($10 million), in 2010 when japan began requiring disclosure of high executive pay.
the concern was that his relatively high compensation might be viewed unfavourably since japanese top executives tend to draw lower pay packages than their peers in other countries.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore users of power-assisted bicycles (pabs) and e-scooters will have to pass a mandatory online theory test by the end of this year, in order to continue using them in public spaces.
pab users will have 40 minutes to tackle 40 multiple-choice questions.
e-scooter riders will have to answer 30 multiple-choice questions in 30 minutes.
the passing score for both tests which will improve awareness of active mobility rules, code of conduct and safe riding practices is 80 per cent.
the land transport authority (lta), which announced details of the test on monday (june 14), said those who pass will receive a digital certificate with no expiry date.
it added that it is giving riders time to prepare for the test which will be rolled out on july 1 before enforcement kicks in on jan 1.
"from jan 1, 2022, riders will be required to show their digital certificate when requested by enforcement officers," said lta.
"we encourage riders to register and obtain the test certificates as soon as possible, once the test is made available on june 30.
"those caught riding without the certificate can be fined up to $2,000 and/or jailed for six months for the first offence.
repeat offenders can be fined up to $5,000 and/or jailed for 12 months.
the active mobility advisory panel (amap) first proposed a mandatory test for e-scooter and pab users in september 2019, among other recommendations.
these came after a spate of accidents involving mobility devices and the death of a cyclist after a collision with a speeding e-scooter rider whose device did not meet regulations.
the government accepted the recommendations and said it would complement other efforts to boost path and road safety.
riders can register for the test from june 30 with the singapore polytechnic's professional and adult continuing education academy.
those who do so between june 30 and sept 30 will pay a discounted rate of $5 per test, with a free resit should they fail on their first try.
those who register after sept 30 will pay $10 per test attempt.
lta said the test will be available in english, chinese, malay and tamil.
riders can prepare through e-handbooks that it has uploaded online.
those who want to take the test in person should contact lta at this website and the request will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
lta said riders will need to register an account on the theory test portal using their singpass at least one day before the test.
those taking the test have to be at least 16, the minimum age for riding pabs and e-scooters.
adults supervising e-scooter riders below 16 will also be required to pass the e-scooter theory test.
mr denis koh, chairman of personal mobility device enthusiast group bwss, said the six-month timeline to take the test is an achievable one for riders.
mr koh, a former amap member, said he had tried a trial version of the test without referring to the handbooks provided by lta.
for the e-scooter test, he was able to meet the 80 per cent passing mark, but he fell short for the pab test.
he said there is no need for riders to panic about the tests, and encouraged them to prepare by reading lta's handbooks and signing up for available training programmes.
"at the end of the day, it's about making sure candidates know the rules and good practices well enough to be safe on paths and roads," he added.
"hopefully, the test will ensure that people have the minimum required knowledge to ride safely.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore chinese daily lianhe zaobao has responded to an open letter signed by local academics and scholars who took issue with its recent editorial on race relations, saying it has consistently upheld racial equality and advocated for mutual understanding among all ethnic groups in singapore.
as the anchor chinese newspaper, it has publicly and unequivocally condemned several recent local incidents of racial discrimination, and jointly defended racial harmony through its editorials, zaobao said on monday (june 14).
"singapore is a multiracial nation.
we truly believe in the ideals expressed in the national pledge and cherish the hard-won racial harmony, but that does not mean that we believe that there are no tensions in racial relationships," it said.
"lianhe zaobao has always taken a consistent stance on upholding equality among all races and advocating that there should be mutual understanding among ethnic groups.
this is evident from our editorials, news reports and feature articles.
in the midst of the pandemic, we have seen more racial tensions simmering, which is why we have published a total of seven editorials related to this issue in the past year and a half.
"the open letter, which was signed by over 200 people, was concerned about the way it felt zaobao had characterised the problem of racism here in the wake of recent racial incidents in its june 9 editorial titled 'expanding public space to promote racial harmony'.
the letter's signatories include phd students, researchers and academics, among them professors linda lim, lee soo ann, vineeta sinha and pang eng fong.
the letter said the editorial "ignores the dynamics of structural racism and the longer history of racial stereotyping in singapore", and blamed the recent incidents on the uncertainty caused by the pandemic, the sensationalism of social media, and the import of "foreign ideas" such as critical race theory the idea that racism is not just about personal prejudice but is also embedded and perpetuated by systems and policies.
"it is true that feelings of uncertainty heighten inter-group tensions, and that conversations on social media can be polarising.
however, the editorial uses these arguments to suggest that recent racist incidents are an anomaly in an otherwise racially harmonious society, and that social media exaggerates what are otherwise exceptional acts by unusually racist individuals," said the letter.
it said the pandemic and social media have "simply revealed long-standing fissures and the everyday discrimination experienced by racial minorities in singapore".
the letter also said zaobao had misrepresented critical race theory as "promoting hatred of white people" in the united states, and by extension, of chinese people here.
it added that this argument is typically made by far-right commentators in the us who do not engage in the actual writings and concepts of critical race theory.
in response, zaobao hoped readers would see the june 9 editorial in its entirety, saying the piece analyses the problem from three different aspects, and tries to explain that the pandemic, the role of social media, and popular ideological trends from abroad have all exacerbated racial tensions.
critical race theory (crt) was cited as an example of the influence of foreign ideas, zaobao said, adding some scholars had used the concept, which originated in the us in the 1970s, to analyse race issues here, and criticise it for downplaying the "systemic and structural racism" in singapore.
it also noted the different interpretations of the concept in academic circles, saying: "one should not easily dismiss the critique of crt by serious scholars as a 'far-right american perspective'.
""we strongly believe that when discussing the issue of race in singapore, we should not be applying foreign ideas and concepts without adapting them to local conditions," zaobao added.
it said racial discrimination exists in every society, with some things in common and others specific to each.
"theories and concepts based on foreign situations may not always be applicable to singapore.
sometimes, instead of deepening our understanding of the issue and promoting consensus, they may complicate it.
but we are also aware and accept that there are those who do not agree with such views and positions.
"it added: "racial harmony is a common goal for all singaporeans.
we believe the scholars who signed the letter share the same philosophy and welcome rational and open discussion on the issue.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces (saf).
phoon chiu yoke, who faces seven charges of not wearing her mask in various places and breaching her stay-home notice, again asked district judge (dj) janet wang for her charges to be dropped.
the 53-year-old singaporean was filmed in a confrontation with a safe-distancing ambassador (sda) at marina bay sands last month.
the incident on 15 may was caught in a viral video showing phoon demanding to see the sda's badge.
phoon also removed her mask after leaving court on 24 may, when she was photographed and filmed by the media.
at her tuesday hearing, the prosecution told the court that phoon may face additional charges, including those from the immigration and checkpoints authority.
phoon, who represented herself, stated that she was an ex-naval officer who had a "number of incidents" when she was a "plaintiff" or "eyewitness" to many cases, and as such, it was "not possible" for her to have a fair hearing.
"i am not privy to discuss all these cases in court here without causing embarrassment or being prejudicial to the saf and to the government of singapore (so i) am applying for all these charges to be dropped," she said.
when probed on her cases with the saf, phoon repeated her allegations, adding, "due to all these cases in the past, i should be granted immunity as a citizen. "
phoon described the cases as "grave" and "very serious in nature".
dj wang then responded that her case with the saf would not be relevant to her present charges, and that the court would not be cognisant of those charges.
in reply, phoon said, "i beg to differ.
"the judge then adjourned the case to 6 july, pending her additional charges and for phoon to seek legal advice.
the maximum penalty for breaching covid-19 measures is six months' jail and a fine of $10,000.
repeat offenders can be jailed for up to one year and fined up to $20,000.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:woman, without mask in viral mbs video, asks judge to drop chargeswoman charged for not wearing mask at mbs, outside court and elsewherewoman in viral video at mbs seen outside court without maskwoman in viral video at mbs claims trial to not wearing mask charge in separate incidenta nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
canberra mrt opened in november 2019, and in the immediate quarter after (q1 2020), property prices in district 27 jumped by over 6% qoq.
read about what canberra has to offer, as well as bto and condo projects in the area.
singapore: a 60-year-old man has been charged with the attempted murder of a 52-year-old man at a housing board block in choa chu kangover the weekend.
ong eng siew was on monday (jun 14) given one count of attempting to murder mr ku teck eng at around 9.
30pm on saturday at the void deck of block 407, choa chu kang avenue 3. ong is accused of repeatedly stabbing mr ku with a knife.
the prosecutor successfully applied for ong to be remanded.
he will be taken out for investigations to recover evidence and for further scene investigations.
ong will return to court next week.
the police said in an earlier statement that they responded to a case of assault with a knife at the location at about 9.
30pm on jun 12. they found the victim with stab wounds at the scene and he was taken conscious to hospital.
preliminary investigations revealed that the victim knew ong, but no further details were given in court at this early charging stage.
ong purportedly fled the scene before the police arrived, but was arrested within two hours of the reported crime, said the police.
if convicted of attempted murder, ong could be jailed for life.
he cannot be caned as he is above the age of 50. it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
in established democracies, the tradition is for a defeated leader to act graciously toward the victor — to make a show of national unity despite the rage and humiliation that might be burning inside.
former president donald trump flushed that tradition down a gold-plated toilet, along with many other democratic norms.
he not only refused to show up at president biden's inaugural but continues to this day to accuse biden of being an illegitimate president who was fraudulently elected.
you would think other democratic leaders would recoil from trump's odious example.
not former israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu.
in leaving office, bibi, as he is known, is showing himself to be as graceless and selfish as the master of mar-a-lago.
like trump, he refused to attend the inauguration of his successor — the new right-wing prime minister, naftali bennett, who leads a coalition government with the centrist yair lapid.
shortly before the vote in the knesset that confirmed his downfall, netanyahu delivered an angry, vituperative, scorched-earth speech full of trumpian invective.
it truly has to be read for its awfulness and pettiness to be believed.
netanyahu began with lots of self-praise before segueing into attacks on the "dangerous" new government.
although bennett is also a critic of the nuclear deal with iran, bibi claimed that his former protege won't stand up to the biden administration like he would.
he even attacked president franklin d.  roosevelt for not bombing german concentration camps and the railways leading to them in 1944.  this was by way of suggesting that the united states is again doing nothing to save the jewish people from "extermination," while bibi alone protects the jews.
he claimed that bennett "doesn't have the international standing" to oppose a nuclear agreement — and won't do what netanyahu did when he spoke to congress in 2015 against the nuclear deal.
this is several orders of crazy historical revisionism.
first, historians doubt that u. s.  bombing could have stopped or even significantly slowed the holocaust.
second, netanyahu's speech to congress did not stop the nuclear accord — it only alienated then-president barack obama and other democrats, while aligning netanyahu with the republicans.
that partisanship has done long-term damage to the u. s. -israel alliance.
third, and most importantly, the iranian threat against israel has actually grown since trump, at netanyahu's urging, pulled out of the nuclear accord in 2018.  since then, iran has ramped up its nuclear program, while stepping up the production of missiles and drones and its support for regional allies such as hamas and hezbollah.
yet netanyahu claimed that iran is "celebrating" his downfall.
as if it weren't enough to accuse the new government of endangering israel's security, netanyahu also argued that it will endanger israel's economy.
"try to ruin our wonderful economy as little as possible," he said, "so that we can fix it as quickly as possible when we return to power.
"bibi then delivered his own version of trump's phony claims about a "rigged" election.
"the vote counting was kosher," netanyahu admitted, "but the winning of the votes was done fraudulently.
bennett led astray hundreds of thousands of right-wing voters and transferred their votes from the right to the left. "
as if israeli voters did not realize that in casting ballots for the parties led by bennett and his allies, they were voting to remove netanyahu from office.
because the new coalition government is backed by an israeli-arab party, bibi accused it of being the handmaiden of "extreme islam.
"bibi's final blast was very trumpian in its self-pity.
"my family and i have been through hunting, prosecution and denigration, the likes of which has never been seen," he said.
"all so that i will bow down and surrender to the left. "
just as trump claims to be fighting for "forgotten americans," so bibi insisted, "i did not surrender because i am operating in the name of a large public of millions of citizens, as the servant of a millennia old ancient people, wishing to sit in peace and security in its own land.
"what nonsense.
netanyahu is facing corruption charges in an israeli court.
the reason he did not "surrender" — the reason he put the country through four elections in less than two years — has nothing to do with the interests of "millions of citizens" and everything to do with his self-interest.
he has been desperately clinging to power in the hopes of getting the knesset to pass a law that would render a prime minister immune to prosecution.
netanyahu has genuine accomplishments to boast of — from israel's covid-19 vaccination campaign to winning recognition of israel from four muslim states.
he is much smarter than trump and much more skilled at politics.
but his farewell speech shows why so many of his former allies turned against him and ultimately turfed him out of office.
like trump, netanyahu suffers from a crippling character defect.
he lies, schemes and backstabs because politics, for him, is ultimately about self-promotion — not national service.
his farewell address showed why he should never be given another chance to lead.
read more:jennifer rubin: like the u. s. , israel bids goodbye to an unhinged leaderyousef munayyer: why a new israeli government won't mean justice or peace for palestiniansdavid ignatius: inside the palace intrigue in jordan and a thwarted 'deal of the century'jackson diehl: netanyahu's reaction to biden's victory is appallingthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
having a pet can be an extremely fulfilling experience.
you get companionship and with that, intriguing anecdotes tend to follow.
however, not many stories would be able to match up with what zul, a local tiktoker, posted last wednesday (june 9).
won't forget this 🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️🤦‍♂️ ##russianbluecatit's not every day you come across a flooded home caused by your pet cats' mischievous actions.
but for zul, it wasn't the first time either.
"i'm speechless guys, it's the second time.
both the same, when i'm sleeping with no one else home," zul said.
zul doesn't only have one or two cats, he's got a clowder of russian blue.
somehow, his cat (or cats) figured out how the kitchen tap worked and waited for the perfect time to strike — when the human wasn't awake.
the worst part for zul was that he was just about to head to work but had to take urgent leave to clear up the mess instead.
that didn't seem to bother his cats one tiny bit.
many were in a state of pure serendipity, splashing about in the water with not a care for the world.
"don't play!
look, they're playing in the water.
the one that's gotta clean this mess is me, luckily my parents aren't home," zul quipped.
towards the end of the video, some cats were just chilling on the furniture, seemingly avoiding the water now that they've had their fair share of fun.
zul was still trying to come to terms with what his cats had put him through.
"it's like a swimming pool, y'all go and swim!," zul said in annoyance as he threw a tennis ball towards his cats.
this time no more water 🤣 ##russianbluethe following day, zul posted another video of his cats running amok at home.
this time, it wasn't to do with kitchen taps but kitchen towels instead.
bits of kitchen towels were scattered everywhere, from the space surrounding a room door to the entire kitchen area and kitchen toilet.
"i came out of the room and was shocked.
look at what they're doing.
they're playing with tissue!
they're playing with tissue!"
zul asserted in the same exasperated tone from the previous post.
a netizen tried to get zul to look on the brighter side by stating that at least it's an easier clean-up on zul's part, as compared to when his cats were playing with water.
another netizen felt like the cats were just too cute and adorable.
zul admitted that he too saw the funny side and found it difficult to get mad at them.
when you can say that, even after two flooding incidents and bits of kitchen towels littered everywhere, you know that the love for the cats is unconditional.
big ups to you, zul!also read: woman in sengkang finally finds out who has been stealing her flip-flopsamierul@asiaone.
com
singapore: the people's association (pa) has cancelled a meeting with a couple whose wedding photo was used as a cut-out standee without their permission, saying that there was "no point" in proceeding with it after comments she made on social media.
the meeting with ms sarah bagharib and her husband razif abdullah was set up to offer them an in-person apology over the incident, said the pa in a facebook post on monday (jun 14).
a photo from their wedding in 2017 was recently used as part of hari raya decorations at a tiong bahru estate in radin mas constituency.
"we also wished to clarify our position, elaborate on the steps we have taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how we might improve at the meeting," said the pa in its statement on facebook.
however, the pa said that ms sarah had made a public call in her social media posts to "please share your messages/suggestions to pa here and we'll share them".
"we find this odd.
we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," the pa said.
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"allegations of racismthe pa had publicly apologised to the couple on may 29 and removed the standee.
it also said: "we will take steps to guide and help our staff and, as far as possible, external vendors as well, to be more culturally-attuned and sensitive.
"ms sarah posted a response to pa's apology on jun 1, saying that there are "glaring gaps that indicate a very superficial understanding of the gravity of the issue".
this was not just about copyright infringement, but there was a "larger issue affecting the wider malay/muslim community", she said.
"it is unfortunate that a government body that was established to build and bridge communities in achieving one people, one singapore is required to still 'guide and help (its) staff .
.
.
to be more culturally-attuned and sensitive' 61 years after inception," she wrote in the post.
ms sarah also referenced the incident in a few instagram stories, which the pa responded to in its statement on monday.
referring to an instagram story re-posted by ms sarah on jun 11, the pa said ms sarah had shared claims by another user that the incident perpetuates "racist culture".
the pa also said that ms sarah characterised the standee incident as "racist" by lumping it with "other racist attacks and incidents" in one of her posts, and that she "insinuated" in an interview with assistant professor walid jumblatt abdullah that the pa's staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
the assistant professor is from nanyang technological university's school of social sciences, with research areas that include religion and politics.
during the interview on jun 7, ms sarah noted that the hari raya light-up event featuring the standee was attended by mp melvin yong.
she wondered if mr yong saw the standee and what he thought about it, saying: "if he did and he didn't say anything about it, then something is definitely wrong.
""there was a comment there as well about internalised racism," she added.
"we've been so conditioned to think that this is a certain way .
.
.
there's nothing wrong with this because you know people that are colourblind, i guess, or blind to racism at play or there's nothing wrong because it doesn't impact them.
"pa rejects accusationson monday, the pa said it rejects those accusations.
"while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," it added.
cna has contacted ms sarah for her reaction to the pa's comments.
the pa also said that its grassroots organisations such as the malay activity executive committees council (mesra) and the indian activity executive committees council (narpani pearavai) play a key role in representing the interests of the malay and indian communities.
"we regularly reach out to numerous community partners among all our races and religions to ensure that their concerns are actively considered when designing our programmes," it added.
what happened with the standee at radin mas was an "isolated incident", said the pa, adding that it showed nonetheless that the organisation "can fall short".
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters.
"we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures.
singaporeans becoming 'one people' is a work in progress – and so is the pa. "it further refuted ms sarah's point that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame".
"this is untrue," said the pa on monday.
"the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on may 28 and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on may 29.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: singaporean dickson yeo was detained under the internal security act (isa) on jan 29 for acting as a paid agent for a "foreign state", the internal security department (isd) said on tuesday (jun 15).
while isd did not name the foreign state, yeo, 40, was last year sentenced to 14 months' prison in the us for spying for china against the us.
isdarrested yeo after he was deported to singaporeon dec 30 last year after he served his sentence.
it interviewed him to establish if he had engaged in activities prejudicial to singapore's security.
the department said on tuesday that yeo carried out intelligence activities against singapore from 2016 until his arrest in the us in 2019.  he was tasked to source for information and provide reports on issues of interest to his foreign handlers, including information relating to singapore.
"towards this end, he had approached various individuals in singapore in an attempt to obtain information for the purpose of writing his reports," isd said.
yeo also set up a front company in singapore as a cover for his information-gathering activities as well as recruitment for his foreign handlers.
he also tried, but failed, to get a job in the singapore government.
"isd's investigations established that yeo had worked for the intelligence apparatus of a foreign state and had carried out various taskings given to him by his foreign handlers in exchange for monetary gains.
"yeo admitted to being fully aware that his foreign handlers were working for the intelligence apparatus of the foreign state.
"isd said investigations are ongoing and that yeo's "continued detention is necessary to facilitate probes into the full extent of his activities".
yeo was jailed in the us on oct 9 last year after admitting to operating illegally as a foreign agent, which can bring up to 10 years in prison.
he was given a relatively light sentence and credited for 11 months already spent in prison because of his cooperation with us authorities and the threat of contracting covid-19 in jail, a us federal judge said then.
in his plea, yeo admitted to working between 2015 and 2019 for chinese intelligence, spotting and assessing americans with access to "valuable non-public information".
they included a civilian working on the us air force's f-35b stealth fighter project, a pentagon army officer with afghanistan experience, and a state department official, all of whom were paid as much as us$2,000 to write reports for yeo.
yeo told these people that the reports were for clients in asia, without revealing that they were in fact for the chinese government.
yeo was recruited by chinese intelligence operatives while studying for a phd at the national university of singapore's lee kuan yew school of public policy (lkyspp) in 2015.  he went on to work for the chinese after he visited beijing to give a presentation on politics.
former top singapore diplomat bilahari kausikan said that yeo's phd supervisor at lkyspp was huang jing.
the professor was identified in 2017 as an "agent of influence for a foreign country" by singapore's ministry of home affairs (mha).
without naming the country, mha said huang "knowingly interacted with intelligence organisations and agents of the foreign country, and cooperated with them to influence the singapore government's foreign policy and public opinion in singapore".
huang gave what he claimed was "privileged information" about the foreign country to prominent and influential singaporeans, including a senior member of lkyspp, with the aim of influencing their opinions in favour of that country, mha said.
huang was permanently banned from singapore and had his permanent residency status revoked, mha said.
huang left singapore in 2017. yeo also told us investigators that his previous intelligence work targeted other asian countries before focusing on the us.
mha said on jul 26 last year that its investigations into yeo's activities did not reveal any direct threat to singapore's security.
on tuesday, isd said the singapore government takes a "very serious view of anyone who enters into a clandestine relationship with a foreign government".
this includes those who engage in activities at the behest of the foreign power that may harm singapore's national security and interests, including bilateral relations, it said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    monday, 14 jun 2021
                singapore (the straits times/ann): a man posed as a woman online to lure a 17-year-old boy into having commercial sex with him.
muhammad al-masfuiin muhsin, now 26, had pretended to be a woman who was looking for a "sex slave" to provide sexual services for "herself" and her "boyfriend" in exchange for s$250.
on june 18, 2019, the teenager, who had been kicked out of his home earlier, arrived at a tampines flat.
al-masfuiin, posing as the boyfriend, then performed a sexual act on the boy in exchange for a night's lodging in the unit.
he also gave the boy a $50 note.
the singaporean, who was aware of the teenager's age, was sentenced on monday (june 14) to 10 months' jail after admitting that he had indulged in commercial sex with a minor below 18 years old.
the victim cannot be named due to a gag order to protect his identity.
deputy public prosecutor emily koh said that some time in 2017, the boy started using online classifieds website locanto and discovered advertisements for sexual services as well as posts by people looking for "sugar mummies" or "friends with benefits".
a sugar mummy commonly refers to an older woman who is willing to pay for the company of a younger person.
he created an account on locanto as he wanted to earn money by offering sexual services.
the teenager was kicked out of his home on june 16, 2019, after a heated argument with his mother.
in need of money, he created an advertisement on locanto titled "toyboy fantasy", stating he was looking for a "sugar mummy" and was willing to provide sexual services.
al-masfuiin, who came across the advertisement, posed as a woman and chatted with the boy via messaging platform telegram.
the dpp said: "the accused was aware that the victim had no place to stay and offered lodging to the victim.
still posing as a female, the accused told the victim that he could stay at 'her boyfriend's place' and that 'he'll send a grab to let you stay over'.
"believing that the accused was a female, the victim asked if the accused was joining the sex session.
the accused, still posing as a female, replied that 'she' 'might not', 'but my (boyfriend) will tell me if you did a great job at sex'.
"the teenager arrived at the tampines flat at around 1.
20am on june 18 and al-masfuiin performed oral sex on him.
the boy later fell asleep in the unit and al-masfuiin gave him the $50 note after he woke up that morning.
the pair then parted ways.
a police officer was patrolling in toa payoh later that day when he spotted the teenager.
he looked through the youngster's mobile phone and found out the minor had been providing sexual services.
al-masfuiin was arrested soon after.
for having commercial sex with a minor below 18 years old, an offender can be jailed for up to seven years and fined.
the straits times/asia news network 
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                court
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sex underage
                                                                ,
                                                                                                



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from monday (june 14), which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening on monday will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post on sunday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore border measures will be tightened for travellers from fiji with immediate effect because of the worsening covid-19 situation there, said the ministry of health (moh) on monday (june 14).
all those who enter singapore with a travel history to fiji in the past 21 days will now be required to serve a 21-day stay-home notice (shn) in dedicated facilities, added moh in its statement.
previously, travellers were subject to a 21-day shn, with 14 days in dedicated facilities and the remaining seven at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.
on the other hand, travellers from israel who arrive in singapore from 11.
59pm on wednesday (june 16), will serve a 14-day shn at dedicated facilities and seven days at their place of residence, said moh.
they are currently subject to a 21-day shn at dedicated facilities if they had a travel history to israel in the past 21 days.
this was given the improving situation in israel, said moh, so a "risk-based approach" will be adopted.
all travellers serving a 21-day shn will undergo covid-19 polymerase chain reaction tests on arrival, day 14 of their shn, and before the end of their 21-day shn period.
moh said a multi-ministry task force regularly reviews singapore's border measures to manage the risk of importation from travellers and onward local transmission.
it added that "as the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our border measures".
any changes to border measures will be updated on the safetravel website.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
josiah mayo surveyed the ocean's surface on friday, watching the bubbles that emerged from his fishing partner's underwater breathing gear.
it was michael packard's second plunge into the ocean off the coast of cape cod that morning and he had already caught about 100 pounds of lobster.
but the bubbles suddenly stopped.
then, an explosion of white water erupted from the sea.
mayo wasn't sure what he was witnessing.
a burly fish thrashed before him and for a split second he thought it was a great white shark.
then mayo saw its flukes cut through the water and observed it violently shake its head.
"this was a humpback whale," mayo, 43, told himself, as he recounted in an interview with the washington post.
"it was a relief because it wasn't a shark, which meant michael would be all done at that point.
"moments later there was another mighty boil of white water and packard soared out of the ocean and flopped back down.
mayo sped the boat up next to packard, who was floating in a puffed-out drysuit thanks to the whale's speedy ascent to the surface.
"i was inside it.
i was inside its mouth," packard, 56, told mayo.
"it tried to eat me.
"packard's harrowing tale is rare and unheard of among the experienced divers of provincetown, mass.
humpback whales don't harm people on purpose, said mayo, who worked on whale-watching boats as a teenager and whose father is a premier whale scientist.
mayo said his father and his colleagues believe the only logical explanation was that the whale swallowed packard by accident.
"it took [packard] from behind and it seemed like it fully enveloped him immediately," mayo said.
"that's kind of remarkable and so we can only imagine the whale was probably feeding.
"mayo added he believed it was a young whale.
"i like to think of it as a teenager or a puppy.
.
.
.
it probably doesn't know what it's doing too well," he said.
a similar incident occurred off the coast of port elizabeth, south africa, in 2019 when a bryde's whale scooped up a marine conservationist documenting a mass migration.
experts who witnessed the event also said it was an accident, noting the whales are "gentle giants," one said in a short documentary.
diving is a dangerous occupation and packard, a provincetown native who has been commercial diving since he was 18, has come close to death more times than most, mayo said.
while lobster diving in 2017, packard came across the body of a fellow diver who was lost at sea six years earlier.
packard has gotten lost a few times himself, mayo said, thanks to a strong current that carried him far from the boat.
mayo, fortunately, found him each time.
packard spent years diving for abalone in the shark-filled waters off the coast of central california, mayo said.
he's gotten concussions, injured his hand a few times and had two close encounters with great white sharks in cape cod.
"clearly they weren't interested in eating him because they would have, since they could have," mayo said.
packard also nearly died in 2001 when he was in a plane crash in costa rica and suffered life-threatening injuries.
three people died and at least four others survived.
on friday around 5:30 a. m. , mayo and packard set off into calm water in their fishing vessel, named the "ja'n j" after packard's 12- and 16-year-old sons.
the two have worked together for about 15 years and often fish for lobster, bluefin tuna and mackerel.
packard's first dive that morning "wasn't great," mayo said, requiring his partner to go back in a few more times.
at about 8 a. m. , packard plunged about 45 feet deep, and almost reached the ocean floor when he "felt this truck hit me and everything just went dark," he said in an interview with wbts.
"and i could feel just .
.
.
hard stuff all around me," packard said.
"and i just thought, 'did i just get eaten by a white shark?'
and then i said, 'no, i don't feel any teeth. '
and i said, 'oh my god, i'm in the mouth of a whale.
with his mouth shut. '
"packard felt the whale swimming and shoved his breathing regulator back into his mouth.
"i'm like, 'this is how you're gonna go, michael.
this is how you're going to die.
in the mouth of a whale,' " he recalled thinking.
for about 30 to 40 seconds, packard twisted, turned and coped with an agonizing pressure on his legs.
he could feel the whale's forceful head shakes.
then came the light.
"i just got thrown out of his mouth, into the water — there was white water everywhere," he said.
"and i just was lying on the surface floating and saw his tail and he went back down.
and i was like, 'oh my god, i got out of that.
i survived.
'"with the help of a friend who was fishing nearby and witnessed the incident, mayo gently pulled packard out of the water and removed his drysuit.
packard was calm and fully cognizant, mayo said, and told the men he thought his legs were broken.
they also worried that packard had an embolism because the whale drove him up to the surface so quickly, a "no-no in diving," mayo said.
mayo then called the ambulance, rescue squad and packard's wife and drove full-speed toward the dock.
hospital staff were in awe of packard's story, he said in an "ask me anything" on reddit on sunday.
"i said 'i got stuck in a whale's mouth,'" packard's son wrote on behalf of his father.
"all the nurses and doctors at the hospital came to see me and ask me about it.
one nurse came in with a notepad, she asked me for lottery numbers!
"after tests, doctors told packard he had no broken bones and there were no signs of an embolism.
his legs were badly bruised, and he had a dislocated knee.
doctors sent him home later that day.
packard's story quickly spread throughout the town and eventually made national and international headlines.
though packard's experience appears fantastical, his reputation among locals as an experienced angler made his account all the more believable, mayo said.
"if it was some yahoo, i think we'd be arguing if it actually happened," mayo said.
"you see him narrating what happened and it's just .
.
.
so very clearly true and obvious what happened.
"packard's bruised legs have forced him to stay grounded as they heal, but he's already planning his next trip out into the ocean.
"it looks like being the tough son of a gun he is, he's ready to be back at it as soon as he can be," mayo said.
"i think we'll probably be diving in a week, which is pretty remarkable.
"the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore (the business times) bulk shipping company pan ocean is proposing a voluntary delisting from the singapore exchange with a conditional cash exit offer of $8.
70 per share.
this represents a premium to the shares' last transacted price of $8 on may 10, its last trading day.
the delisting is not a privatisation exercise, pan ocean and its south korean parent company harim holdings said in a joint announcement of monday (june 14).
the company intends to maintain its primary listing on the korea exchange (krx), and singapore registered shareholders can elect to have their shares transferred from the singapore branch register to the south korea register if they wish.
the exit offer will not be extended to the shareholders of the company whose shares are registered on the company's principal register of shareholders in south korea.
in the announcement, pan ocean and harim said that in maintaining the dual listing, pan ocean incurs costs that could be focused on business operations.
krx is also geographically more aligned with the company's business operations and core business competencies, which are based in south korea, it said.
furthermore, trading liquidity in singapore is generally thin, with an average of 86 shares traded in the last one month leading up to its last trading day.
there are only 170,597 shares, representing about 0.
03 per cent of the total number of issued shares, trading on the sgx, as at the monday announcement.
moreover, pan ocean has no need for access to capital markets and has not carried out any exercise to raise cash funding on the sgx in the last five years.
the delisting is subject to the approval of the sgx and both the delisting and exit offer will be conditional on the obtaining of shareholders' approval at an extraordinary general meeting.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore the people's association (pa) has withdrawn its offer to meet a malay/muslim couple whose photo was used as a standee for hari raya aidilfitri decorations without permission, citing disagreements with them over the purpose of the meeting and how they had characterised the incident.
communications specialist sarah bagharib, 30, had posted on social media on may 28 about the inappropriate use of her wedding photograph at a housing board estate in radin mas constituency.
this drew a public apology from the pa and an offer from the government agency to meet her and her husband, mr razif abdullah, to apologise in person for the distress caused by its mistakes.
however, in a facebook post on monday (june 14), the pa, which oversees various grassroots groups, said it saw no point in going ahead with the meeting, citing ms sarah's recent comments on the matter.
the pa said ms sarah had shared claims that the incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and was "racist".
the agency rejected these claims, saying: "while the error was culturally insensitive, it was certainly not racist.
it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments.
"[[nid:530926]]it also noted that she had made a public call for messages and suggestions ahead of the meeting.
"we find this odd.
we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident," the pa added.
"all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"the couple's wedding photo had been used by a vendor to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas mp melvin yong and his hari raya aidilfitri greetings to residents.
the pa had explained in an earlier statement that its radin mas constituency office had engaged a vendor, warabi enterprise (art studio), to design and put up hari raya aidilfitri decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
the vendor came up with the concept and design, and downloaded and used the photo from an online source for the standee.
after ms sarah drew attention to the matter, the pa removed the standee, and offered to meet the couple.
on monday, the pa said it had wanted to clarify its position, elaborate on the steps it had taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how it might improve at the meeting.
it also said it had, over e-mail, explained to ms sarah that it values racial and religious harmony in singapore.
the pa also made references to two instagram stories ms sarah had posted recently in explaining its response.
in the first, she reshared an instagram story by another instagram user, @jeanpsychologist, who had responded to an instagram post ms sarah had made.
user @jeanpsychologist thanked ms sarah for posting on the incident, and called for chinese singaporeans to "educate ourselves on our conditioned racism", saying this is "long overdue towards our friends in minority communities who have to put up with our ignorance which continues to perpetuate the racist culture that hurts them".
in the second instagram story, ms sarah penned a series of reflections on the incident, and said she was thankful to those who had stood in solidarity with her and her husband as well as other ethnic minorities in the aftermath of "this incident (and other racist attacks and incidents that have been filmed)".
the pa also claimed ms sarah had insinuated in an online talk show on june 7 that pa's staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
she had been asked by host walid jumblatt abdullah, an assistant professor from nanyang technological university, whether she would accept an invitation from mr yong to meet in person if he had made such an offer.
ms sarah replied she would, wondered if the mp had seen the standee, and added that "something is definitely wrong" if he had seen the standee and did not say anything about it.
she also referred to someone's comment about internalised racism, and spoke about how some people are blind to racism, or feel there is nothing wrong with racism as it does not impact them.
in its post, the pa stressed it remains steadfast in its mission to promote racial harmony, and that its grassroots organisations, such as the malay activity executive committees council and narpani pearavai, play a key role in representing the interests of the malay and indian communities.
"we regularly reach out to numerous community partners among all our races and religions to ensure their concerns are actively considered when designing our programmes," it added.
the pa also said that what happened at radin mas was an isolated incident, but nevertheless shows that it can fall short.
"we agree it is important for our staff and volunteers to be sensitive to and knowledgeable about the cultures of all our ethnic groups.
we are now looking at establishing a resource panel to guide and advise our staff on cultural matters," it said.
"we will also step up training efforts to enhance staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of our different cultures.
singaporeans becoming "one people" is a work in progress and so is the pa. "the pa also said ms sarah's allegation in her e-mail on june 1, that the pa was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" to "distance and deflect blame" from itself, was untrue.
it said the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on may 28 and apologised, before the pa issued its statement on may 29. the straits times has contacted ms sarah for comment.
she had written on instagram on june 1, after acknowledging pa's apology: "as an ethnic minority, this isn't new — seeing others have a superficial understanding of my culture and then feeling like i have to explain it is.
.
.
exhausting.
but i want to help bridge that gap where possible through real and respectful conversations so that we can move beyond superficial understanding and promote deeper social cohesion.
"[embed]https://www.
instagram.
com/p/cpkvyrcbx8u/?utm_source=ig_embed&utm_campaign=loading[/embed]in her june 7 talk show, she also said she had spoken up about the incident as she would like to see more "tangible accountability" from the pa to ensure such incidents do not happen again.
this includes hearing about steps that they will take.
she also noted that when minorities speak up about their experiences, they are not doing so in order to incite racial disharmony.
the pa said in its post: "enhancing our understanding of singapore's various races, religions and cultures is a ceaseless effort — this lapse having been a good reminder of this.
.
.
we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia's move to start inoculating workers in key economic sectors against covid-19 before the completion of vaccinations for senior citizens and front-liners has drawn criticisms from several opposition politicians.
mr khairy jamaluddin, the national coordinating minister for immunisation, said on monday (june 14) that the government will begin vaccinating industry workers from wednesday, as part of measures to reduce infections in workplaces that continue to dominate the number of new clusters.
vaccine centres will be opened for the manufacturing, construction, plantation, retail and hospitality sectors.
a total of 30,000 doses will be set aside to inoculate factory workers this month.
"if we look at the daily covid-19 data on sunday, 11 out of 15 clusters are workplace outbreaks, involving almost 200 active cases," mr khairy told a news conference.
"this is why we made the decision for the fourth phase, or the pandemic control phase, to kick off as soon as possible to reduce the number of workplace clusters and stop the transmission of infections among workers.
"but the move announced last week was slammed by the opposition who pointed out that the vaccination of front-liners and senior citizens has yet to be completed.
the management department director of the federal police, datuk ramli din, revealed last week that 20 per cent of the police force, many of whom have to man roadblocks during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, had yet to be vaccinated.
opposition democratic action party (dap) mp and former deputy education minister teo nie ching said on june 10: "kj (khairy jamaluddin) promised in march that teachers would be prioritised in phase two.
however as at june 5, only 70,000, or 16.
2 per cent, of the teachers under the ministry of education had been vaccinated.
when will the remaining 83.
8 per cent of the teachers get their vaccine?
"teachers are currently conducting classes online until end-july.
while some 57 per cent of senior citizens are expected to be vaccinated by mid-june, it appears the rest may have to wait while the government fast-tracks vaccines for workers, said dap mp khoo poay tiong on june 9.
"as khairy himself has repeatedly stated, our supply of covid-19 vaccines is limited.
starting phase four concurrently with phase two means fewer vaccines would be available for senior citizens.
this is a major deviation from the government's own policy.
in effect, senior citizens would have to wait longer for their vaccine although they are categorised as a high-risk group.
"the states of pahang, terengganu and kelantan, as well as sabah in borneo, have the lowest vaccine take-up rates in the country.
as at june 6, the registration rates for pahang, kelantan and terengganu were 43.
36 per cent, 36.
83 per cent and 43.
28 per cent respectively, dap pahang assemblyman chiong yoke kong said last week.
sabah has the lowest rate at 19.
75 per cent.
in contrast, putrajaya and kuala lumpur have the highest rates of 100 per cent and 70.
65 per cent respectively.
kelantan, terengganu and pahang also have the highest number of people who skipped their vaccine appointments, totalling more than 10,000 in each state.
believing in fake news, not checking the vaccine app and transport issues, were some of the reasons for missing the appointments, said mr chiong.
prime minister muhyiddin yassin on sunday said the government is confident that kuala lumpur and putrajaya will achieve herd immunity earlier than expected by august.
malaysia recorded 4,949 new cases on monday, with 2,026 of them from selangor and kuala lumpur.
there are a total of 662,457 cases so far.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
former england defender gary neville has heaped praise on gareth southgate after the three lions' euros 2020 victory over croatia, labelling the manager "our biggest asset".
england won their opening game at a european championships for the first time ever as raheem sterling's goal earned a 1-0 victory at wembley.
southgate made several bold calls, starting kieran trippier out of position at left-back, raheem sterling in attack despite his poor club form and kalvin phillips in midfield alongside declan rice.
however, the manager's team selection paid off, with trippier part of a new-look back four that was rarely troubled, while phillips set up sterling's winner in a superb display.
"i was shocked by the inclusion of trippier at left-back like most people but not in a doubting way because i don't doubt the manager," neville said on itv.
"i think we've got an outstanding international manager who's got unbelievable experience.
"there are a lot of things that i would have said historically would have gone against england today.
two-o'clock kick-off, 30 degrees, playing against a team that passed us off the park in the last tournament, an experienced team.
not having his best defender, not having his best team.
"i thought he managed that game unbelievably today.
you talk about who the best player was, it might be kalvin phillips or raheem sterling but our biggest asset is our manager.
"the clamour in the past would have been to for grealish and he didn't even bring him off the bench.
so, he's willing to make the unpopular decisions, ones that some of us ultimately, at times, don't think he should make because he knows that group better than anyone.
he knows how to get a performance and a result better than anyone.
"he's had seven or eight tournaments now, as a coach now, with the u21s, as a player.
he's vastly experienced and i feel really comfortable with him there, as an england fan, and what he did today was really good.
"read moregareth southgate hails 'outstanding' kalvin phillips as england man bosses midfield against croatiakalvin phillips leads the way as england show promising signs of solving age-old problem in croatia winraheem sterling sends a cryptic message about his difficult season for manchester city after england winan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
a graphic designer was allegedly attacked by his neighbour with a bicycle chain in the corridor of his housing board flat on saturday.
he suffered a cut to his head that needed stitches.
the victim, who wanted to be known only as mr toh, told chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao that the alleged attack occurred after he had moved his neighbour's bicycle.
the police told the new paper they were alerted to the case of dispute that happened at block 130 ang mo kio avenue 3 at about 10.
30am.
they arrested a 65-year-old man for voluntarily causing hurt with a dangerous weapon.
investigations are ongoing.
speaking to wanbao, mr toh, 47, claimed that he had moved his neighbour's bicycle that was parked next to his window so that he could climb his ladder and clean the outside of the window.
when the neighbour returned and saw that his bicycle had been moved, he allegedly pushed the bicycle with force, causing it to hit the ladder.
shocked, mr toh turned around to ask his neighbour what was wrong.
mr toh told wanbao: "without a word, he took out a chain with a lock from the bicycle basket and started attacking me.
"the alleged attack caused mr toh to fall off the ladder and he felt severe pain on the back of his head.
he ran to a nearby unit to ask for help from a woman.
she took a towel to stem the bleeding and mr toh claimed she also stepped forward to stop the neighbour from attacking him again.
mr toh, who was in a daze, said he was concerned for the safety of his children who were in the house.
the divorcee's 14-year-old daughter and 12-year-old son were visiting him as it was the school holidays.
he said: "i was dizzy from being beaten up, but i remembered that my front door was unlocked.
"i was worried that the attacker would run into the house and hurt my children.
"fortunately, the woman living next door helped attend to my children.
"mr toh was taken to khoo teck puat hospital by the singapore civil defence force.
wanbao reported that he needed five stitches for a 4cm wound on his head.
he was discharged on the same day.
mr toh has been living with three tenants in the unit for about two years.
he alleged that the neighbour has been spitting and throwing garbage outside his unit and that the incidents started a month after he had moved in in 2019. mr toh said: "my injury is of secondary concern.
i am more worried about how this incident will affect my children.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
shanghai-based global times reporter covering domestic affairs, international relations, shanghai and its surrounding areas.
global times reporter based in shanghai, covering financial news and breaking news related to large corps surrounding shanghai.
unit 1 of the taishan nuclear power plant begins commercial operations on december 13.  photo: vcgthe japanese government's decision to discharge contaminated wastewater from the fukushima nuclear plant into the sea has triggered .
.
.
the tianwan nuclear power plant, the largest technical and economic cooperation project between china and russia at the .
.
.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the police are investigating a raucous funeral procession in boon lay on sunday (june 13) that was attended by nearly 200 people, some maskless.
covid-19 regulations currently permit only 20 people at a funeral.
the group had allegedly circled block 191 boon lay drive for an hour, chanting loudly.
more than 10 people carried the white coffin of a 43-year-old man, according to chinese-language evening daily lianhe wanbao.
wanbao said the incident happened at about 5pm.
the dead man, whose obituary was on a notice board near the lift of the housing board block, was cremated at about 6pm.
he has four daughters and a son.
residents told wanbao that the crowd had started gathering as early as 1pm at the block 191 playground, and that the proceedings lasted till about 7pm.
the police said they have arrested 14 men in the group for being suspected members of an unlawful society.
they are investigating the incident, including for potential breaches of covid-19 safe distancing measures.
in a statement, the police said: "the police have zero tolerance towards secret society activities and will not hesitate to take firm action against those who are associated with gangs and blatantly disregard the law.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: gojek drivers in singapore will pay less to the ride-hailing platform from jun 21, in a scheme that will last to at least the end of 2022. the company announced on monday (jun 14) it would reduce service fees for all drivers from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, "allowing them to take home more earnings immediately without having to rely on incentives".
it will also implement a flat fee payout of s$3 for pickups of 3km or more, as well as new daily peak hour targets.
gojek said this would boost earnings by up to s$100 during peak hours.
the new service fee, flat fee payout and peak hour targets will be implemented on jun 21. there are no performance requirements for the lower service fees and all drivers are eligible regardless of their goalbetter tier, said gojek on its driver-partner blog.
for gojek taxi drivers, their service fees will continue to be waived until aug 8, 2021. there will also be no performance requirements for the s$3 flat fee for far pickups.
all drivers, as well as both gocar and gotaxi trips, are eligible for the s$3 flat fee.
"these changes .
.
.
are designed to help (driver-partners) take home more earnings per trip and build a sustainable livelihood on the gojek platform," said mr lien choong luen, general manager of gojek singapore.
the press release added: "the changes announced today reflect a significant investment in singapore a strategic market for gojek and are aligned to the company's goal to further strengthen its market share and maximise business potential in the country.
"fare increase by grabgojek's latest moves comes off the back of changes made by rival grab, which last monthincreased its fares by s$1 for passengers using the app.
the increase took effect from jun 1, with 100 per cent of the s$1 going to drivers for the month of june 2021. the firm, which typically takes about 20 per cent of each fare, said it would not collect commissions from this s$1 during this period.
grab said then that the revision was aimed at improving earnings for drivers.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — while the use of a malay-muslim couple's wedding photo as a standee in hari raya decorations by the people's association (pa) last month was "culturally insensitive", it was certainly not "racist", said the pa in a facebook post on monday (14 june).
"it is not right to raise the allegation of racism, without basis, to stoke emotions and sentiments," said the pa in a detailed post, adding that it saw "no point" in proceeding with an arranged meeting with sarah bagharib and her husband razif abdullah.
in an instagram post on 28 may, sarah had highlighted the use of the photo to create a standee alongside a decorative platform and banner depicting radin mas member of parliament melvin yong and his hari raya wishes for residents.
noting that neither she nor her husband had given consent for the photo to be used by the pa, sarah added, "the inappropriate appropriation and use of our cultural symbol only succeeded in showing people('s) association's superficial understanding of malay/singaporean muslim culture".
the post has garnered almost 18,000 likes.
in its post on monday, the pa noted that it had removed the standee and apologised to the couple, as well as posting a public apology on its social media platforms.
its post on 29 may revealed that warabi enterprise (art studio) had been engaged by radin mas constituency office (co) to design and put up hari raya decorations at the tiong bahru orchid estate.
however, in the process, the vendor downloaded sarah's photo from an online source and then used it for a cut-out standee.
and while the pa spoke to the vendor on the seriousness of the incident, it stressed, "the pa, including radin mas co, take responsibility for this error as we have oversight of the matter.
"in addition, the pa offered on monday to meet with the couple to apologise in person.
"we also wished to clarify our position, elaborate on the steps we have taken to prevent such incidents from recurring, and hear her suggestions of how we might improve at the meeting.
"however, it claimed that sarah had said this incident "perpetuate(s) the racist culture" and characterised the incident as "racist".
in an instagram live interview with walid j.  abdullah last tuesday, said the pa, she also insinuated that pa staff and volunteers did not find anything wrong with the standee as they might be "blind to racism".
"these are accusations we reject," said the pa. furthermore, in sarah's public social media posts about her upcoming meeting with the pa, she had made a public call for anyone to "please share your messages/suggestions to pa here and we'll share them".
"we find this odd," said the pa.  "we do not see why our meeting should be appropriated as a platform for her to funnel the views and comments of persons unrelated to the incident.
"the pa added, "all these lead us to believe her purpose in agreeing to meet with us has gone far beyond the radin mas incident.
we therefore see no point in proceeding with the meeting.
"it also claimed that sarah's email to the pa on 1 june alleged that it was "hasty in sharing the name of the vendor" in order to "distance and deflect blame" from itself.
"this is untrue.
the vendor had identified himself directly to ms sarah on 28 may, and apologised.
this was before pa issued our statement on 29 may," said the pa.  "it is regrettable that ms sarah did not clarify this point during her instagram live interview with mr walid j.  abdullah on 7 june.
instead she persisted in conveying the impression that pa had deflected blame from itself.
"we hope that this incident will not tar the other good work which our staff and volunteers have done.
"pa also said it is looking at setting up a resource panel to guide its staff on cultural matters, and stepping up training to enhance its staff and volunteers' understanding and appreciation of different cultures.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore stories:of 25 new covid cases in singapore, 19 local including 1 dorm residentman who smuggled 3 dogs and 3 cats from pet shop in jb jailed 24 weekse-scooter, pab riders must pass online theory test from 1 jan 2022an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
father's day is coming up.
show him that you care with a special unique gift.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
do more for your budget.
shop with a paypal business debit card and get cash back.
*an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
amazon.
comwith its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistthe philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
drivers in texas can't believe this is true.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a 60-year-old man has been arrested for attempted murder at a carpark in choa chu kang avenue 3. the police said yesterday that officers responded to a case of assault with a knife at about 9.
35pm on saturday.
a 52-year-old man, who was found conscious with stab wounds, was taken to hospital.
the suspect fled the scene before the police arrived, but was arrested within two hours of the incident.
the police said that preliminary investigations revealed that the alleged attacker knew the victim.
the suspect will be charged in court with attempted murder today.
if convicted, he will be liable for life imprisonment, imprisonment of up to 20 years and a fine, or both.
male offenders above the age of 50 are spared caning.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
submitted by stomper mukundthis story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
this story was submitted via stomp app contribution.
a stomper is looking for a car owner after he accidentally hit his vehicle in toa payoh on june 11. stomper mukund shared with stomp that the incident happened at about 9pm in front of ice cream cafe creamier at block 131 lorong 1 toa payoh.
"i accidentally touched the vehicle owner's car," he said.
"he obviously got irritated and annoyed but i was unsure.
"i didn't lose my cool but when i looked back at my car's video recording, he was right.
"i would like to contact the owner to apologise and pay for the damages.
"any help to trace the owner would be much appreciated!
"get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
seoul: south korea began easing restrictions on large concerts and sports events on monday (jun 14) after announcing last week it would loosen a series of coronavirus curbs as the country pushes ahead with its vaccination drive.
up to 4,000 people will be allowed to attend k-pop concerts and other cultural shows from monday, up massively from a capacity limit of below 100 people since late last year, according to measures announced by health officials on friday.
sports stadiums will be able to operate at a 30 per cent to 50 per cent capacity, depending on the districts, up from 10 per cent previously.
while south korea has fought small clusters of coronavirus infections in recent months, the daily infection number hit a two-month low on sunday while the government has pushed through with its vaccination drive.
the government has also said it would loosen some quarantine restrictions for fully vaccinated overseas visitors.
from jul 1, some of those travellers can apply for exemptions from having to observe south korea's mandatory two-week quarantine if they are visiting family or travelling for the purpose of business, academics or public interest, health authorities said on sunday.
as thecovid-19 vaccine rolloutgains momentum, many countries are planning a gradual return to normal, opening borders and letting people back into restaurants, shops and sports venues after more than a year of on-off lockdowns.
south korean tour agencies were also preparing new travel packages after the government's announcement last week that it is accelerating talks aimed at securing "travel bubbles" with a few countries, including singapore and thailand, the korea association of travel agents told reuters.
south korea has given a first dose to over 11.
8 million people or 23 per cent of the country's population, the korea disease control and prevention agency (kdca) director jeong eun-kyeong told a briefing.
that is below the vaccination rate seen in many advanced countries, such as 61 per cent in the uk, but higher than 12 per cent in japan, according to a reuters tally of state and local government sources.
japan started vaccinating its population in february like south korea.
while there has been a significant drop in new cases at nursing homes as many elderly have received vaccines, south korea will only see a full-scale reduction in the number of local transmissions in september when over 70 per cent will have been inoculated, said jeong.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
 merewards lets you get coupon deals, and earn cashback when you complete surveys, dine, travel and shop with our partners singapore: more than half of the 18 new community covid-19 cases reported in singapore on monday (jun 14) are linked to a cluster at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre.
in its evening update, the ministry of health (moh) reported ten infections linked to the cluster, including two food stall vendors, a cooking assistant and a general worker at a food stall.
the other six cases linked to the bukit merah market cluster are: an it engineer at ibm (changi business park central 1), a student at ite college central, an unemployed woman, two retirees and a hawker at telok blangah drive food centre.
a total of 16 confirmed cases are now linked to the cluster at bukit merah view market.
the market has been closed since sunday and will remain so until tuesday to facilitate deep cleaning and to break potential transmission chains.
case 64184 clustersix other community cases were linked to case 64184, a male engineer who works at ecoxplore.
these include three cleaners who work at ascent (science park drive), eunike living and emerald park condominium.
the other three community cases linked to case 64184 are a student at amity global institute, an analyst at pinnacle credit services and a foreign domestic worker.
the total of 18 new community cases reported on monday is the highest daily number of locally transmitted infections reported in singapore since jun 3, when 35 community cases were reported.
one case was reported in a migrant workers' dormitory, a 26-year-old indian man who works as an electrician at gt engrg.
he lives at westlite juniper at 23 mandai estate.
the sole dormitory case is also a close contact of case 64184. one unlinked caseafter reporting two unlinked cases in its preliminary update, moh revised the number to one following epidemiological investigations.
the remaining 18 locally transmitted infections are linked to previous cases.
the sole unlinked case is a cleaner at 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4, a 79-year-old singaporean man who is employed by ao servicepro.
there were also six imported cases, all of which had been placed on stay-home notice upon their arrival in singapore.
three were returning singaporeans or permanent residents.
in all, singapore reported 25 new covid-19 infections on monday.
twenty-five more people were discharged, bringing the total number of fully recovered patients to 61,894. there are currently 138 cases in hospital, with two in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 235 have been isolated and are being cared for at community facilities.
new locations visited by community casestelok blangah food centre and three shopping malls were added to the list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
vivocity, ion orchard and excelsior shopping centre were also listed.
the full list of new locations is as follows:



                        

(image: moh)


diy covid-19 test kits available from jun 16covid-19 antigen rapid test kits for self-testing will be available in pharmacies from jun 16. these tests produce results in less than 20 minutes and detect the viral proteins in the nasal swab samples of infected people.
the tests are usually most accurate in the early stages of infection.
four self-test kits have received interim authorisation from the health sciences authority and will be sold at selected unity, watsons and guardian outlets.
the four test kits are: abbott panbio covid-19 antigen self-test, quickvue at-home otc covid-19 test, sd biosensor sars-cov-2 antigen self-test nasal and sd biosensor standard q covid-19 ag home test.
customers may purchase the test kits without a doctor's prescription but must first consult the in-store pharmacist.
as of monday, singapore has reported 62,301 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities.
download our app or subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak: https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
copyright© mediacorp 2021.  mediacorp pte ltd.  all rights reserved.
singapore: singapore-headquartered carro, a southeast asian online automotive marketplace, said on tuesday (jun 15) it has raised us$360 million in its latest funding round led by softbank vision fund 2, becoming the region's latest unicorn.
"the valuation for the company is well over a billion dollars," ceo and founder of carro, aaron tan, told reuters.
he did not provide a specific number.
carro will use the fresh capital to expand into new locations and grow its business in its existing markets indonesia, thailand, malaysia, and singapore.
it also plans to expand its portfolio of financial services and accelerate development of artificial intelligence capabilities.
carro's platform allows consumers and wholesale businesses to buy and sell vehicles along with providing insurance and financing services.
other investors in the new round of financing include several prominent indonesian based funds including ev growth, it said.
since being founded in 2015, carro has raised more than us$400 million in equity and us$200 million in debt.
its previous investors include softbank ventures asia, edbi pte, insignia ventures partners and b capital group.
the company has started preparing internally for an initial public offering (ipo), tan said.
"the plan is to ipo the company, hopefully, in the next 18 to 24 months in the us, depending on whether the market holds," he said.
while carro saw an initial decline in business due to the covid-19 pandemic, like other digital businesses, the company is now benefiting from users shifting to online transactions.
"people are more willing to buy vehicles entirely online without the need to visit a showroom," he said.
carro booked revenues of us$300 million for the year ending march 2021 and has registered positive ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) for two years.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using food delivery services will be extended by an additional month.
enterprise singapore yesterday said the food delivery booster package will support businesses and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run.
the package, which started on may 16 and subsidises part of businesses' delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. in addition, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. see the big story • delivery subsidies package for f&b firms gets extendedjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when mr raj started looking at pre-schools for his 13-month-old twins, he was hopeful they would have the chance to learn tamil, which is spoken by his family.
but the closest centre offering the mother tongue language was too far away, and did not have vacancies.
so the public servant and his wife settled for a nearby school that offered chinese as the lone mother tongue option.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
when spice shop owner jeya seelan saw security camera footage of a man stealing $800 from the till, he decided that he was not going to tarnish the culprit's reputation.
that is why he used a blurry photo that obscured the man's face when he posted on his facebook account asking the thief to return the money, even though he was upset and angry.
in a phone interview with the straits times, mr jeya said: "it was just heartbreaking and shocking.
if you think about all the hard work that went into earning that money, and one guy suddenly comes in to steal it in a flash, it's devastating.
"mr jeya also opted not to make a police report for the same reason to avoid harming the man's reputation.
the decision was not a popular one.
he said: "i was under a lot of pressure.
many people, including my wife, said making a police report was the right thing to do.
people on facebook asked me to report him as well.
they said a leopard can never change its spots.
"but times are tough for everybody, and some people could have lost their jobs.
everyone is fighting their own battles.
"mr jeya, 31, is the owner of jeya spices at block 294, yishun street 22.  he also has a stall at the fairprice xtra supermarket in parkway parade.
the theft took place at the yishun shop at about noon on june 3.  at the time, two of mr jeya's employees were looking after the shop while he was away on course.
one of them had gone to the toilet and the other was attending to a customer.
that was when a man walked by and swiped about $800 from a plastic box where the money was kept.
this is not the first time someone has stolen money from the shop till.
about three years ago, a man who worked part-time at the shop stole about $40.
since it was a small sum, mr jeya let the matter go, but he installed a closed-circuit television camera.
the shop sells custom-made spice blends and condiments, and mr jeya said he started working there in 2014 two months after graduating from nanyang technological university's wee kim wee school of communication and information.
he was initially indifferent to joining the business, which was started by mr jeya's grandfather 60 years ago.
when his father asked him if he wanted to work there, he said yes.
"i was just sitting idle at home so i thought, why not give it a go?
"the first two days of work were tough, he said, but soon, he was hooked.
he was drawn in particular to custom-blended spices, which are slowly falling out of favour.
mr jeya is keen to revive their popularity.
mr jeya, who has no children, lives in ang mo kio with his wife, who works as a relationship manager in standard chartered bank.
yishun is close to mr jeya's heart, and he thinks of his customers there as family.
that was one reason he was not keen to go to the police when he discovered the theft, choosing instead to rely on facebook to get the thief to return the money.
he said: "yishun is a close-knit community where everybody knows each other.
a lot of my friends and customers in the neighbourhood helped by sharing the facebook post.
they were also angry and gave me emotional support.
"the day after the theft, on june 4, a friend of the man who took the money sent mr jeya a text message at about 6pm.
the next day, he came with the thief to return the money.
mr jeya said: "we like to say 'bila bila yishun', which means 'yishun forever' in malay.
we have a spirit of helping one another.
people say the kampung spirit is dying but i don't believe that's true.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the former head of myanmar's covid-19 immunisation programme has been arrested and faces charges of high treason for colluding with opponents of the military authorities, state media reported on monday (jun 14).
myanmar's healthcare system and coronavirus prevention measures have collapsed since the army seized power on feb 1 and overthrew elected leader aung san suu kyi, whose government had successfully stopped two waves of the virus.
on sunday, reported cases surged to their highest since shortly after the coup.
doctors and other medical workers have been at the forefront of a civil disobedience movement (cdm), leading strikes that have paralysed official and private business.
dozens have been arrested and hundreds more are wanted.
the global new light of myanmar said htar htar lin had been arrested on jun 10 and she was also accused of working with an underground national unity government (nug).
"according to her confession, she not only joined the cdm and formed the cdm core group together with other cdm doctors and staff but also colluded with terrorist nug," it said.
reuters was unable to reach her or any lawyer representing her for comment.
the paper said she and 11 other doctors would face charges that included high treason, incitement and colluding with an illegal organisation.
the junta has branded the nug set up by supporters of suu kyi and other opponents of military rule as a terrorist group.
the arrest of htar htar lin and other doctors was condemned by us-based physicians for human rights.
"dr htar htar lin's arbitrary arrest is yet another sign that the military junta will stop at nothing in its war against myanmar's health workers," said jennifer leigh, an epidemiologist serving as the group's myanmar researcher.
the 373 new cases of covid-19 reported on sunday was the highest since feb 3, just before testing collapsed in the wake of the coup.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a 17-year-old boy who wanted to find himself a sugar mummy after being kicked out by his mother, was preyed upon by a 26-year-old man instead.
the victim had put up an advertisement on platform locanto expecting elder women to reply.
he instead received a reply from muhammad al-masfuiin mushin, who pretended to be a woman to lure the victim to his flat.
al-masfuiin, a singaporean, was jailed for 10 months on monday (14 june), after he pleaded guilty to one count of obtaining the sexual service of a minor under 18the victim cannot be named due to a gag order protecting his identity.
on 16 june 2019, the teen got into a heated argument with his mother and was kicked out of the house.
in need of money, he placed an advertisement on locanto, which he had downloaded two years ago in order to earn money by providing sexual services.
the advertisement was titled "toyboy fantasy satisfies you- 18", and stated that he was looking for a "sugar mummy" who could pay him in return for sexual services.
he included his mobile phone number and two photographs of himself.
the next day, al-masfuiin saw the advertisement and decided to chat up the victim while posing as a woman.
he told the boy, "i'm looking for a young boy to be my sex slave" and asked the victim for his photographs and body statistics.
when the victim asked if he was male or female, al-masfuiin said she was female.
the victim told him that he was 17 years old and in need of money as he had been chased out of his house.
as a "woman", al-masfuiin asked the victim for a threesome with "her" and "her boyfriend", even though there would be no female involved.
the victim agreed and asked for $250 per meet up.
at about 10.
38pm that day, the victim messaged al-masfuiin to ask if they were able to meet up.
al-masfuiin was aware that the victim had no place to stay.
he told the victim that he could stay at "her boyfriend's place" and that "he'll send a grab to let you stay over".
al-masfuiin texted that he also expected the boy to service "her boyfriend".
al-masfuiin then arranged transport for the victim.
at about 1am on 18 june 2019, al-masfuiin sent a grab to the victim, who asked al-masfuiin if "she" was joining the sex session.
al-masfuiin replied "she might not" but that her "boyfriend will tell me if you did a great job at sex".
when the victim asked if the boyfriend knew his age, al-masfuiin replied "yes" and "i like my boys young".
after the victim arrived at al-masfuiin's apartment, al-masfuiin told him to take a shower while he sat on the sofa bed in the living room masturbating himself.
the two engaged in sexual acts, with al-masfuiin overpowering the boy when the latter resisted.
after the incident, the boy went to sleep.
he woke at about 8.
30am and asked al-masfuiin for money to go to work.
al-masfuiin took out a $50 note from his wallet and handed it to the victim before the two parted ways.
according to court documents, a police officer performing foot patrol came across the victim on 18 june 2019 at toa payoh central.
during the course of investigations, the officer discovered messages relating to him providing sexual services, in his phone.
al-masfuiin was arrested afterwards.
commercial sex with a minor under 18 carries a jail term of up to seven years, with fine, or both.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:singapore reports 13 new covid-19 cases, 10 from the communitycovid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfan ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
here are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistan american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
this new car cloth can easily remove all the car scratches and dents from your car.
the philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
see why these gadgets are selling out quickly.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
when you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
carro, one of southeast asia's biggest online marketplaces for used cars, has raised $360 million led by softbank vision fund ii to fuel expansion in thailand and indonesia before pursuing a u. s.  listing.
the fresh capital pushed carro's valuation to more than $1 billion, the company said in a statement.
the business competes with carousell and carsome in southeast asia.
carro, formally known as trusty cars pte, is seeking to bolster its market position in indonesia, thailand, malaysia and singapore as well as broadening its financial services.
the company is targeting an initial public offering in the u. s.  within the next two years, chief executive officer aaron tan said in an interview.
"an ipo remains on the horizon for us," tan said.
"eighteen to 24 months is achievable. "
he added that the firm is on track to handle more than 200,000 used-vehicle transactions this year.
softbank group corp.  has minted a number of unicorns this year.
they include singapore-based patent analytics provider patsnap and indian banking technology provider zeta.
carro simplifies the car buying and selling process for both consumers and dealers by leveraging artificial intelligence, greg moon, managing partner of softbank investment advisers, said in the statement.
softbank has been backing carro since its venture capital arm softbank ventures asia first invested in the startup in 2016.
advertisementsupported bybinyamin appelbaumby binyamin appelbaummr.
appelbaum is a member of the editorial board.
the decline of corporate taxation in recent decades is generally blamed on pirate states like luxembourg, ireland and bermuda, which offer an alluring combination of very low tax rates and an unembarrassed enthusiasm for allowing companies to play make-believe.
but the pirates have a silent partner: the united states.
generations of american policymakers haven't shown much interest in collecting money from corporations.
regarding corporate taxation as politically necessary but economically suspect, they have responded to tax evasion by making disapproving noises.
they have allowed companies to pretend profits are earned in low-tax countries and then cited the loss of tax revenue as the justification for tax cuts.
little wonder the united states collects a smaller share of tax revenue from corporations than any other major economy does.
the biden administration has put forward a plausible plan to break with this pattern and make companies pay more taxes by raising domestic rates and penalizing firms that shift profits to tax havens.
it has won the support of other leading economies for an international minimum corporate tax rate.
but a familiar obstacle, congress, stands in the way.
the anti-tax radicals in the republican party oppose any plan to collect more money from corporations — even money otherwise paid to foreign governments — and an international agreement could require the support of two-thirds of the senate.
the biden administration could achieve many of its goals without a deal by legislating changes to u. s.  tax law.
but there's a lack of enthusiasm among some senate democrats, too.
rumblings of discontent already have prompted the white house to pare its plans.
the basic case for more corporate taxation is that the government needs the money.
the biden administration plans to use it to rebuild bridges, replace water pipes and increase renewable energy output.
some economists argue higher taxes will slow economic growth, but decades of cutting corporate taxes haven't exactly produced the promised economic miracles.
even if there is a price, taking money from the rich for the benefit of the many can still be sound policy.
the distribution of prosperity matters, as well.
the work has to begin at home.
the focus on foreign tax havens has obscured the extent to which the united states has become a tax haven for u. s.  companies.
the statutory tax rate is 21 percent.
but american multinationals paid just 7.
8 percent of domestic profits in taxes in 2018, according to the congressional joint committee on taxation.
while those companies made liberal use of foreign tax havens, too, the total tax rate on their foreign profits was actually a little higher than the tax rate on their domestic profits.
the biden administration has proposed raising the domestic rate to 28 percent and imposing a 21 percent tax rate on profits reported in foreign countries.
it is also seeking an international agreement on a 15 percent minimum corporate tax rate.
firms would pay at least that much, irrespective of where they operated or claimed to operate.
they would get credit for taxes paid in foreign countries, but if they paid less than 15 percent of profits, the home country would collect the difference.
such a deal would limit the competitive disadvantage of american companies.
janet yellen, the treasury secretary, who is leading the negotiations, argues that it would also benefit the global economy by ending tax-rate bidding wars and encouraging countries to compete instead by educating workers and investing in infrastructure.
some pirate states, notably ireland, have vocally protested, arguing that they use low tax rates to promote legitimate economic development.
for ireland, this is a half-truth.
for even smaller tax havens, it's pure nonsense.
companies that book profits on the isle of jersey are playing the same game as freighters that fly the flag of liberia.
multinationals book about 25 percent of profits in tax havens where, on average, they have 11 percent of assets and 5 percent of their employees, according to the organization for economic cooperation and development.
ireland's position is understandable but unacceptable and ultimately not much of an obstacle.
if the major economies agree to adopt the american scheme, ireland can keep on pretending that it's a major center of corporate activity, but corporations will still have to pay their bills back home.
ireland would lose most of its utility as a tax haven.
the u. s.  wants a deal for another reason, too.
countries have generally sought to limit tax conflicts by agreeing that corporations should pay taxes in the countries where they create value.
but that principle has been strained by the rise of american technology firms like facebook and google that make money in countries where they have little or no physical footprint.
european countries are moving to tax those firms, arguing that, for example, google is not just delivering a service to its users in france but also acquiring valuable information from french users.
as part of the broader deal, the united states is offering to let those countries tax a portion of the tech companies' profits in exchange for dropping the new taxes.
excitement about the prospect of an international agreement should be taken with a grain of history.
just a few decades ago, the average corporate tax rate in the developed world was almost 50 percent.
corporations and anti-tax ideologues have taken advantage of globalization to achieve a shift that is likely to endure for the foreseeable future.
a 15 percent minimum tax rate would simply arrest their progress.
but that's how change begins: you stop, you turn around, and then you start walking in the other direction.
the times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor.
we'd like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles.
here are some tips.
and here's our email: letters@nytimes.
com.
follow the new york times opinion section on facebook, twitter (@nytopinion) and instagram.
advertisement
israel's knessett voted to depose longtime prime minister benjamin netanyahu on sunday, ending (for now) the bibi era.
with the inclusion of a member from the arab ra'am party  in the nation's new governing coalition, the jewish state now has an opportunity to usher in an era of reconciliation.
arab-jewish relations in israel have always been tense.
israel kept arab areas under martial law from its founding in 1948 until 1966.  most israeli arabs are not required to serve in the israeli defense forces and relatively few volunteer, although their participation rose during the pandemic.
they compose roughly 21 percent of the population, but nearly all israeli arabs still live in nearly monolithically arab-populated towns.
they remain poorer and less-educated than israeli jews, even as they have equal political and legal rights.
it's no surprise, then, that arab voters have rarely supported mainstream jewish political parties.
arab parties have traditionally received about 80 percent of the vote from israeli arabs, and those parties have largely been either extreme leftists, such as the communist-backed hadash, or been connected to palestinian nationalism, such as ahmad tibi's ta'al.
the latter is so prominent and so loathed by the israeli right that netanyahu's campaign slogan in the 2020 election was "bibi or tibi," a reference to how netanyahu's opponents would have had to likely rely on the votes of tibi's party in the knesset to prevail.
those parties, needless to say, could not be part of any governing coalition.
israeli arabs who do vote for jewish parties also tend to vote heavily for those on the left, such as meretz or labor.
since there has not been a prime minister from the left since the 1999 election, this means that israel's arabs have largely been politically sidelined for decades.
the result is that many israeli arabs feel disengaged from the nation in which they live, voting at much lower rates than jews.
israel's jewish politicians are no dummies, so many started to court the arab sector in this year's election.
they knew that even a small uptick in votes could make the difference in a nation split down the middle.
the most shocking volte face came from netanyahu himself, who actively campaigned in arab towns pledging to increase funding for arab priorities.
that effort helped him somewhat, as his likud party's share of the vote rose in many arab towns.
but the real winner was an arab himself, mansour abbas.
abbas is the leader of the conservative islamist ra'am party.
ra'am is the political arm of the southern branch of that country's muslim brotherhood, and its charter strongly condemns zionism.
abbas, however, put those concerns to the side and ran on a simple platform of bread-and-butter concerns.
he went into the election arguing that israeli arabs have a lot to gain if they deal with the jewish majority rather than fight it.
he said he was open to supporting either netanyahu or his opponent, and focused his demands on fighting rampant crime in the arab community, legalizing bedouin settlements that israel has not recognized, and increasing funding for economic development.
his party surprised most observers by passing the electoral threshold and entering the knesset, israel's parliament, with four seats.
the results confirmed israel's roughly even split between pro- and anti-netanyahu factions, making abbas the country's kingmaker.
the 47-year-old abbas exploited his crucial position masterfully.
he went on israeli television in april, giving a prime-time speech in hebrew declaring that he is a "proud arab and muslim, [and] a citizen of the state of israel. "
he negotiated with both sides, and could have easily ended up backing netanyahu had ra'am's participation in a pro-netanyahu government not been blocked by bezalel smotrich, the leader of the religious zionist party.
he ended up providing the crucial votes for a government led by israel's first orthodox jewish prime minister, naftali bennett.
abbas got everything he wanted, including a promise to spend 53 billion israeli new shekels — about $16 billion — on fighting crime in arab towns and "reduc[ing] gaps" between the jewish and arab sectors.
this unprecedented political involvement heralds the chance for a new understanding between israel's jews and arabs.
much as the abraham accords promise the chance for reconciliation between jews and arabs among arab states, these abbas accords promise the chance for domestic reconciliation as well.
ethnic violence erupted within israel during the recent war with hamas, starkly demonstrating how important improving relations with israeli arabs is to israeli security.
if abbas can succeed, more arabs will see that they have a concrete stake in israel's future.
that can only make israel's future even brighter.
israel shall always be, as its basic law says, a jewish and democratic state.
sunday's historic vote will help israeli arabs to see themselves as an honored part of that state.
sign up to receive my columns in your inbox as soon as they're published.
read more:fareed zakaria: the only way to solve the israeli-palestinian problemjennifer rubin: like the u. s. , israel bids goodbye to an unhinged leaderhenry olsen: the latest bipartisan infrastructure deal is likely dead on arrival.
biden should reconsider.
david ignatius: what the u. s.  should learn from israel's odd-couple proposed governmentthe post's view: after a bloody weekend, israel needs a cease-fire as much as hamasthe latest: israeli security chief issues rare warning over potential for jan.  6-style mob violence ahead of netanyahu departureanalysis: the era of netanyahu is over — or is it?naftali bennett, set to be israel's next leader, represents a break with its more secular pastwhat to know about naftali bennett, the israeli politician poised to succeed benjamin netanyahuthe most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
beijing: china on monday (jun 14) accused the g7 of "political manipulation" after it criticised beijing over its human rights record in xinjiang and hong kong.
in a communique after a three-day summit in england, g7 leaders slammed china over abuses against minorities in the xinjiang region and activists in hong kong, while us president joe biden called for beijing to "start acting more responsibly in terms of international norms on human rights".
the chinese embassy in the united kingdom responded angrily on monday, and accused the g7 of "interfering".
"the group of seven takes advantage of xinjiang-related issues to engage in political manipulation and interfere in china's internal affairs, which we firmly oppose," an embassy spokesman said in a statement.
the statement accused the g7 of "lies, rumours and baseless accusations".
human rights groups say china has rounded up an estimated 1 million uyghurs and other minorities in xinjiang into internment camps, which beijing says is to eradicate islamic extremism.
"we will promote our values, including by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms," the g7 communique read.
at their first physical summit in nearly two years, leaders of the seven nations announced a number ofpledges on covid-19 vaccinations, climate change, rights and trade.
they also called for a new investigation in china into the origins of covid-19 prompting a response from the chinese embassy that the work needs to be done in a "scientific, objective and fair manner", without agreeing to a new probe.
"the current epidemic is still raging around the world, and the traceability work should be carried out by global scientists and should not be politicised," the embassy said.
the coronavirus first emerged in central china in late 2019, and the world health organization sent a team of international experts in january to probe its origins.
but their long-delayed report published in march drew no firm conclusions, and the investigation has since faced criticism for lacking transparency and access.
the g7 also announced a new infrastructure fund which president biden said would be "much more equitable" than china's massive belt and road initiative.
the chinese embassy statement complained in response that the "accusations against china on economic and trade issues in the communique are inconsistent with the facts and are unreasonable".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

        show ad
      if you ever wondered what it would be like for a human to be swallowed by a humpback whale finding nemo style, 56-year-old lobster diver michael packard can now tell the tale.
packard joined his son, jacob, for a reddit ask me anything yesterday, where he answered all pressing questions about what happened when he was fully swallowed by a whale while off the coast of provincetown, massachusetts while working last friday.
read moreman, do the cubs need to shut uppickup trucks keep getting bigger, more dangeroushow to make your air conditioner more effective and efficient when temperatures soarlet's talk about <em>in the heights</em> and the erasure of dark-skinned afro-latinx folkshear me out: the infield fly rule is dumb and needs to be done away withaccording to packard, he was forty-five feet below the surface when he felt a shove, then he was consumed by darkness.
in the ama he says his initial thought was that it was a shark, but "due to the lack of teeth and the size of it [he] soon realized that what [he] was in was a whale.
"packard was inside the whale's mouth for 30-40 seconds with limited mobility while the whale struggled to spit him out.
while inside the whale's mouth the diver lost his regulator.
thankfully he found it quickly, or he most likely would have suffocated in the pitch black.
convinced he was going to die that day, the father of two shared that his potential final thoughts were about his wife and kids.
humpback whales are not known for going after humans and packard was likely swallowed by accident while the whale scoured for krill or small fish.
even if the whale was really determined to swallow packard whole, it's fist-wide throat would have prevented it.
when it comes to how it the creatures' mouth felt wrapped around his body, it's understandably difficult for packard to describe.
"it was full of water, and i could feel the muscles of its mouth convulsing around me, it was a really strange feeling to be sure," packard says.
"can't draw a meaningful comparison.
"packard's friends swiftly rushed him to the cape cod hospital after the whale released him not too far from the boat, where he was treated for bruising and a dislocated knee.
at the hospital, packard says all the doctors and nurses stopped by to see him and hear his unbelievable story.
"one nurse came in with a notepad, she asked me for lottery numbers!"
packard says.
the series deadliest catch shows that trapping and fishing can be gruesome, and it's common for lobster divers to get swept out to sea or die from the spins.
however, packard will not let his brush with death keep him from the work he's dedicated fifteen years of his life to for too long.
"speaking as jacob, i don't even need to ask this," his son says.
"i have no doubt in my mind he will do everything he can to keep diving, it's his life and passion.
"a doctor at the hospital that treated michael packard after the alleged whale encounter told the new york post he should have been more injured.
the marine area command for australia's new south wales police force said an 18-year-old was "critically injured" by the whale.
top surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
the dogs had been trapped in the 400-foot-wide sinkhole in the central mexican state of puebla for four days.
kate hudson caused commotion on instagram on wednesday after sharing that she was turning to a new form of exercise after finding out that ww (formerly weight watchers) updated its fitness tracker to include sex as a calorie-burning activity.
"my boobs grew," the model wrote in reference to the 30 year difference.
drivers are surprised that they never knew about this.
if your car is driven less than 50 miles a day, you might want to read this.
"it's about digitally altering your body and enhancing your body in ways that dieting and plastic surgery can't even do for you.
"the songstress has declared this "big girl summer.
"at prices this low, you can snag a few.
so mad that i just learned this.
.
.
the english star was a vision in yellow versace.
jazz jennings, 20,  became famous in 2007 when she appeared on '20/20' with barbara walters.
now, the transgender activist joined yahoo!
for pride evolution, a one-hour discussion on the celebration of pride, to discuss her journey.
on monday, lizzo shared several photos of herself wearing a kente cloth patterned bikini by black-owned u. k.  based swimwear brand ashanti swimwear.
she also included a video where she posed for fans in bright green sunglasses.
effortlessly chic, must-haves"the expectations that i put on myself were pretty, pretty gnarly," the actor says of his famous family.
easy-to-clean glass and airtight technology is a match made in kitchen heaven: 'give away your tupperware and don't ask for it back,' said a fan.
the too faced sexy eyes rain or shine 3-piece set combines one of the world's bestselling mascaras with a foolproof primer that keeps you fresh-faced for 24 hours.
voip phones could have you trading in your current phone faster than you think.
take a look at voip now!save big on nintendo, apple, xbox, sony — save up to a whopping 90 percent!the actor, who is gay, celebrated pride with a steamy underwear shot.
steph curry's sister is tackling the topic of mental health with her new podcast.
the price of dental implants may actually surprise you.
research dental implants for seniorswhat to buy — and what to skip — on amazon prime day.
maya forstater won her appeal of the decision, celebrating with a tweet noting, "we won!"
which was promptly retweeted by rowling.
"i hope to make a vow to express my gratitude for all the things you do.
all the times you've held me up and carried me when i didn't think i'd be able to. "
singapore: a scheme to help f&b businesses defray the costs of providing food delivery services and going online has been extended by a month until jul 15, enterprise singapore said on sunday (jun 13).
since it was re-introduced on may 16, the food delivery booster package has benefitted more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling.
the scheme was introduced in april 2020 during singapore's "circuit breaker" period and removed as restrictions eased.
it has been made available again to boost support for f&b businesses during a tough period for the industry, ms low said.
there are now 13 partners supporting this scheme after seven companies were brought on board -food delivery platform bungkus and third-party logistics players chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
"in particular, the extension and expansion of the government's food delivery booster package .
.
.
seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on jun 21," ms low added.
from now until jul 15, enterprise singapore will fund 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by the four food delivery platforms bungkus, deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood.
the agency will also fund 20 per cent of the delivery costs for food delivery orders made through the nine third-party logistic partners currently supporting the initiative.
"the dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for our f&b sector," ms low said, adding that food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal.
citing department of statistics data, enterprise singapore said the covid-19 pandemic and changing consumer preferences have boosted the demand for food delivery services.
for the f&b sector, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
f&b businesses have also been relying on the scheme to diversify their operations by providing food delivery services.
"based on preliminary estimates from the first two weeks of phase 2 (heightened alert) from may 16 to may 29, the daily average number of online food deliveries supported under the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher than the daily average during the circuit breaker last year," enterprise singapore said.
ms low said the scheme "will place our f&b establishments in a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
(corrects to remove extraneous word "the" in paragraph 8)tokyo:     a u. s.  special forces veteran and his son pleaded guilty in tokyo on monday to charges that they illegally helped former nissan motor co ltd chairman carlos ghosn flee japan hidden in a box aboard a private jet in december 2019. chief judge hideo nirei, one of three judges presiding over their first court appearance, asked michael taylor and his son peter whether there was any mistake in the charges submitted by the tokyo prosecutors' office.
"no your honour," the older taylor replied.
"no," said his son.
extradited to japan from the united states in march, they are being held at the same jail in tokyo where ghosn was detained.
they could face up to three years in prison.
wearing black jackets and pants, white shirts and plastic slippers, they were were led into court with ropes threaded through handcuffs and tied around their waists.
prosecutors accused them of helping ghosn evade punishment and escape https://www.
reuters.
com/article/us-nissan-ghosn-charge-idcakbn2be0g1 to lebanon from western japan's kansai airport, receiving us$1.
3 million for their services, some of which was paid to an advertising company owned by the younger taylor.
the prosecutors' statement on monday, which described the younger taylor as a frequent visitor to lebanon, said planning for the escape began around six months before ghosn fled.
the statement also said that ghosn's wife carole ghosn sought help from michael taylor, with ghosn later contacting  him from tokyo with a phone he had hidden from japanese authorities.
a third man george-antoine zayek, recruited by the taylors, traveled to japan later in 2019 to find a way through airport security, settling on the private jet terminal at kansai airport as the best route out, the prosecutors said.
zayek remains at large.
luggage that does not fit through the security scanning machine there is inspected by hand.
that check, however, can be waived by the pilot.
the taylors' lawyers in the united states waged a months-long battle to prevent their extradition to japan, arguing they could not be prosecuted for helping someone "bail jump" and that they could face relentless interrogations and torture.
suspects in japan are interrogated without their lawyers present and are often denied bail before trial.
japan's conviction rate is 99per cent.
at the time of ghosn's escape, he was awaiting trial on charges that he understated his compensation in nissan's financial statements by 9.
3 billion yen (us$85 million) over a decade and enriched himself at his employer's expense through payments to car dealerships.
ghosn, who denies any wrongdoing, remains a fugitive in his childhood home, which has no extradition treaty with japan.
greg kelly, a former nissan executive charged with helping ghosn hide his earnings, is also standing trial in tokyo.
he denies the charges https://www.
reuters.
com/business/autos-transportation/court-former-nissan-executive-kelly-denies-helping-ghosn-hide-earnings-2021-05-12.
(reporting by tim kelly and kiyoshi takenaka; editing by himani sarkar & simon cameron-moore)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the bukit merah view market and food centre covid-19 cluster has grown by 10 cases, said the ministry of health (moh) on monday night (june 14).
this brings the total number of those infected in the cluster to 16. the ministry of health (moh) said a total of 25 new coronavirus cases were confirmed as at monday, including 19 locally transmitted cases.
of the 19 locally transmitted cases, 18 are in the community and one is from a workers' dormitory.
this is the highest number of community cases in singapore since june 3.  it is also the first time a dormitory case has been reported since june 8. the ministry said that of the 18 community cases, 17 are linked 12 were already under quarantine and five were detected through surveillance while one is unlinked.
among the 10 new cases in the bukit merah view market and food centre cluster is a 17-year-old male student at ite college central, a household contact of another case confirmed on monday.
he developed a fever and cough on june 11 and went to a gp clinic, where he was given both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
his art test was negative for covid-19, but his pcr test came back positive.
his serology test which looks for antibodies that indicate a past infection is pending results.
a 94-year-old singaporean man who regularly goes to telok blangah parcview active ageing care hub was also among the new cases added to the cluster.
the retiree developed a runny nose on june 6 and fever six days later on june 12 but did not seek medical attention.
as he is the family member of another case, he was quarantined on june 13.  he tested positive that same day.
a 21-year-old singaporean woman, who works as an it engineer at ibm in changi business park, is another new case.
a family member of two other covid-19 cases and a household contact of a third, she developed a runny nose and fever on june 12 but also did not seek medical attention.
she was quarantined on june 13 and reported her symptoms on the same day.
she also tested positive that day.
a 16-year-old singaporean male student at anglo chinese school (independent) is among the other community cases confirmed on monday.
a family member of an earlier case, he was asymptomatic and was detected when he was tested on june 12 while under quarantine.
there is one unlinked case on monday.
he is a male singaporean, 79, employed by ao servicepro as a cleaner at block 375 and 376 clementi avenue 4.  he developed symptoms on june 12 and sought treatment the next day.
he received his first vaccination dose on june 5. one linked case in the dormitories was also reported.
the 26-year-old indian national works as an electrician at gt engrg and lives at westlite juniper dormitory in mandai.
he was added to a cluster linked to an engineer at ecoxplore.
there are also six imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
three of the six are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the 25 new cases on monday take singapore's total tally to 62,301. the weekly total number of cases is 91 this week, down from 159 the previous week.
there are 46 active clusters, down from 48 on sunday.
as at monday night, 138 patients remain hospitalised, including two in critical condition in the intensive care unit, while 235 are recovering in community facilities.
singapore has had 34 deaths from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive have died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: gas was deliberately released from a nuclear power plant in southern china as operators work to fix an issue at the facility, its french part-owner said on monday (jun 14) following a us media report of a potential leak.
cnn said the us government is assessing a report of a leak at the taishan nuclear power plant in populous guangdong province after framatome, a french firm that partly owns it, warned of an "imminent radiological threat".
edf, the majority owner of framatome, said the plant's number one reactor experienced a build-up of noble gases in its primary circuit, which is part of the cooling system.
the gas leaked after the coating on some fuel rods had deteriorated, said an edf spokesman, who asked not to be named.
noble gases are elements which have low chemical reactivity in this case it was xenon and krypton.
the gases were collected and treated as part of a process to remove any radiocativity before their release, which was normal and "in accordance with regulations", the spokesman said.
"we are not in a scenario of an accident with a melting core," he said.
"we are not talking about contamination, we are talking about controlled emissions.
"framatome said in a statement that the plant was operating "within the safety parameters" despite the"performance issue".
edf called an extraordinary meeting of the plant's board over the matter.
david fishman, manager at energy-focused consulting group the lantau group, said a cracked fuel road can potentially cause a small release of fission materials into the cooling loop, "where it wouldn't normally be".
"failed fuel or cracked fuel is a fairly normal and common undesirably certainly but not uncommon phenomenon in the nuclear fuel industry," fishman told afp.
not at 'crisis level'citing a letter from framatome to the us energy department, cnn said the warning included an accusation that the chinese safety authority was raising the acceptable limits for radiation outside the facility in order to avoid having to shut it down.
but a us official told the broadcaster that the administration of president joe biden believes the facility is not yet at "crisis level".
the operator of the station, state-owned china general nuclear power group (cgn), said in a statement on sunday evening that "the environmental indicators of taishan nuclear power plant and its surroundings are normal".
it did not reference any leak or incident at the power station, which it said meets "the requirements of nuclear safety regulations and power plant technical specifications.
"the international atomic energy agency, a un body, said it had contacted its counterpart in china regarding the issue.
"at this stage, the agency has no indication that a radiological incident occurred," the iaea said in a statement.
afp did not get an immediate response to a request for comment from either the chinese foreign ministry or the chinese nuclear power group.
a problem with a cracked fuel rod would have to be logged by the chinese nuclear safety administration with a mitigation report to fix the problem, fishman said.
fishman said framatome possibly reached out to the us to seek approval for their work at taishan because cgn is on a us entity blacklist.
"if (framatome) were going to transfer over any information that they have gotten from working in the us, they would have to apply for an exemption .
.
.
because cgn is on the us entity list," he said.
"it is a no-fly zone for any us information, any information or data or technology or ip to go to china.
"epr reactorspowered up in 2018, the taishan plant was the first worldwide to operate a next-generation epr nuclear reactor, a pressurised water design that has been subject to years of delays in similar european projects in britain, france and finland.
epr reactors have been touted as promising advances in safety and efficiency over conventional reactors while producing less waste.
nuclear plants supplied less than five per cent of china's annual electricity needs in 2019, according to the national energy administration, but this share is expected to grow as beijing attempts to become carbon neutral by 2060. china has 47 nuclear plants with a total generation capacity of 48.
75 gigawatts the world's third highest after the united states and france and has invested billions of dollars to develop its nuclear energy sector.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                in her new music video, karen mok is seen wearing a bathrobe from italian luxury brand dolce & gabbana.
photo: karen mok/vevohong kong singer karen mok has apologised after an outfit she wore in a new music video caused a backlash in china.
mok, 51, held her karen mok the ultimate grand slam show concert in hong kong over the weekend.
she launched her new album the voyage last week, which contained woman for all seasons, a reissue of her 2001 song of the same name.
in the music video for the new song, mok was seen wearing a bathrobe from italian luxury brand dolce & gabbana (d&g).
she also used the photo of her in the robe as her profile picture on weibo, the chinese micro-blogging site.
also read: hk screen legend kara hui says she begged for money on the streets from age 3 to 13the move caused a backlash in china, where many had been angered by a 2018 d&g campaign they viewed as culturally insensitive.
several chinese netizens demanded to know why mok was promoting such a brand, while others even called for a boycott of the singer.
the topic trended on weibo for several hours on saturday (june 12).
mok has since removed photos of her wearing the d&g outfit from her social media accounts and the music video from all platforms.
her agency and the designer involved in the outfit also apologised on weibo.
d&g caused outrage in china in late 2018 when clips from its advertising campaign showed a chinese model in a red d&g dress struggling to eat italian foods such as spaghetti and cannoli pastry with chopsticks.
the backlash escalated after screenshots of messages sent from d&g co-founder stefano gabbana's instagram account were leaked, in which he allegedly said negative things about china.
several celebrities such as singer karry wang and actress dilraba dilmurat then ended their ties with the brand.
– the straits times/asia news networkrelated stories:hk screen legend kara hui says she begged for money on the streets from age 3 to 13angelababy takes legal action against netizen for saying she's dating younger singerhong kong tvb actress nancy sit welcomes first grandchildbiopic on anita mui wraps production, lead actress still a mystery

tags / keywords:
karen mok



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

we would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion.
kindly fill the form belowwe hope you enjoy this feature!
tokyo: an american father-son duo admitted their role in orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday (jun 14).
former special forces operative michael taylor, 60, and his 28-year-old son peter were extradited by united states authorities over claims that they smuggled ghosn out of the country in a music equipment case as he awaited trial.
at the tokyo district court, the pair said that they did not contest the facts laid out by prosecutors in an indictment, effectively conceding their role in the saga.
"is there any mistake in what the prosecutor just read?"
the judge asked each man in turn.
both replied no.
michael taylor was led in first to the courtroom, with his hands cuffed in front of him.
he wore plastic slippers, dark trousers and a white shirt with no tie.
his son was brought in after, with both men wearing face masks.
the pair face up to three years in prison if convicted of helping ghosn currently an international fugitive living in lebanon, which has no extradition treaty with japan.
ghosn was out on bail while awaiting trial on four counts of financial misconduct, which he denies, when he managed to slip past authorities onto a private jet, transit in turkey and land in lebanon.
on monday, prosecutors laid out again the almost cinematic details of the december 2019 escape, including that the taylors hid ghosn in a case to slip him past security at an airport.
"you helped him escape," said one prosecutor to the two men, who listened to proceedings through a translation earpiece.
ghosn's flight was hugely embarrassing for japanese authorities, with us prosecutors calling it "one of the most brazen and well-orchestrated escape acts in recent history".
us$1.
3 millionthe taylors fought their extradition to tokyo, claiming that they could face torture-like conditions, and have not commented on their case since arriving in early march.
local prosecutors declined to comment on their arraignment before the trial, but japanese media said that both men admitted wrongdoing during questioning.
public broadcaster nhk has said that peter received 144 million yen (us$1.
3 million) from the ghosns for their help.
the asahi shimbun daily said that the pair spent most of the money on preparations for the escape, including the costs of chartering a private jet, claiming that they were not paid for their help.
ghosn remains at large in lebanon, where he was questioned last month by french investigators over a series of alleged financial improprieties.
among the allegations are improper financial interactions with renault-nissan's distributor in oman, payments by a dutch subsidiary to consultants, and lavish parties organised at the palace of versailles.
the questioning took place with his defence team and a lebanese prosecutor present.
ghosn was heard as a witness as he would need to be in france to be formally indicted.
others involved in the ghosn case have faced legal proceedings, including his former aide at nissan, greg kelly, who is also on trial in tokyo for his alleged role in underreporting the tycoon's income.
and a turkish court has sentenced two pilots and another employee of a small private airline to four years and two months in prison for their role in ghosn's escape.
ghosn switched planes in turkey on his way to lebanon, and the three turks were charged with involvement in a conspiracy to smuggle a migrant.
a lebanese national still at large is also suspected of orchestrating ghosn's escape from japan.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a man posed as a woman online to lure a 17-year-old boy into having commercial sex with him.
muhammad al-masfuiin muhsin, now 26, had pretended to be a woman who was looking for a "sex slave" to provide sexual services for "herself" and her "boyfriend" in exchange for $250.
on june 18, 2019, the teenager, who had been kicked out of his home earlier, arrived at a tampines flat.
al-masfuiin, posing as the boyfriend, then performed a sexual act on the boy in exchange for a night's lodging in the unit.
he also gave the boy a $50 note.
the singaporean, who was aware of the teenager's age, was sentenced on monday (june 14) to 10 months' jail after admitting that he had indulged in commercial sex with a minor below 18 years old.
the victim cannot be named due to a gag order to protect his identity.
deputy public prosecutor emily koh said that some time in 2017, the boy started using online classifieds website locanto and discovered advertisements for sexual services as well as posts by people looking for "sugar mummies" or "friends with benefits".
a sugar mummy commonly refers to an older woman who is willing to pay for the company of a younger person.
he created an account on locanto as he wanted to earn money by offering sexual services.
the teenager was kicked out of his home on june 16, 2019, after a heated argument with his mother.
in need of money, he created an advertisement on locanto titled "toyboy fantasy", stating he was looking for a "sugar mummy" and was willing to provide sexual services.
al-masfuiin, who came across the advertisement, posed as a woman and chatted with the boy via messaging platform telegram.
the dpp said: "the accused was aware that the victim had no place to stay and offered lodging to the victim.
still posing as a female, the accused told the victim that he could stay at 'her boyfriend's place' and that 'he'll send a grab to let you stay over'.
"believing that the accused was a female, the victim asked if the accused was joining the sex session.
the accused, still posing as a female, replied that 'she' 'might not', 'but my (boyfriend) will tell me if you did a great job at sex'.
"the teenager arrived at the tampines flat at around 1.
20am on june 18 and al-masfuiin performed oral sex on him.
the boy later fell asleep in the unit and al-masfuiin gave him the $50 note after he woke up that morning.
the pair then parted ways.
a police officer was patrolling in toa payoh later that day when he spotted the teenager.
he looked through the youngster's mobile phone and found out the minor had been providing sexual services.
al-masfuiin was arrested soon after.
for having commercial sex with a minor below 18 years old, an offender can be jailed for up to seven years and fined.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
asiaone online has appointed sean ler as ceo, effective 16 june 2021.  ler (pictured) takes over from interim ceo of asiaone and group ceo for mm2 asia, chang long jong, who will remain as the group ceo for mm2 asia and on the board of directors of asiaone.
ler will be overseeing asiaone's strategy to grow audiences both locally and in the region.
he joined asiaone's parent company, mm2 asia, in may this year as head of group digital strategy.
before that, he was head of programmes and partnerships at temasek foundation where he spearheaded their covid-19 community projects, such as the distributions of masks and hand sanitiser.
ler has also held various roles in the singapore navy, the prime minister's office, and the ministry of home affairs singapore.
he has more than 18 years of experience in business operations and strategy.
ler said: "we will continue to deliver relevant and high-quality content while increasing our offerings.
audiences can look forward to more diverse content from the region, including those in chinese.
"meanwhile, chang said the board expresses its thanks and appreciation to ler for accepting the role at asiaone.  "
his significant public and private sector experience will be invaluable as we continue to expand and grow in asia.
we look forward to his leadership in steering asiaone to its future milestones of success," he added.
chan cheow pong, head of media strategy at singapore press holdings (sph) and board director of asiaone, added that it is delighted to welcome ler as the new ceo of asiaone.
"ler's strong leadership qualities will help chart a new course for asiaone towards excellence in digital media.
with his background in digital outreach and community building, he will further strengthen asiaone and its brand in the exciting era ahead," chan said.
asiaone was founded in 1995 by sph and focuses on social news and trending topics in singapore, malaysia and the region.
mm2 asia acquired 51% equity interest in 2018, and asiaone is now operated as a joint venture between mm2 asia and sph invest, a wholly-owned subsidiary of sph.
last year, asiaone refreshed its logo along with its website, evolving the iconic yellow to a zestier orange colour.
asiaone said previously that it looks to reflect how far it has come in the past year while retaining elements of the "off-centre, on trend" dna of the publication.
related articles:asiaone online names new ceo as mm2 completes takeover of 51% equity interest stakemm2 asia and sph to form jv company under asiaone brandasiaone switches up logo look and website design for 25th anniversaryasiaone treats 'newstritional disorder' with ai-driven news curation
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62,276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
more details will be announced on sunday night.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the chinese scientist at the center of theories that the coronavirus pandemic originated with a leak from her specialized lab in the city of wuhan has denied her institution was to blame for the health disaster.
"how on earth can i offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?"
dr shi zhengli told the new york times in rare comments to the media.
"i don't know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist," she told the us daily.
us president joe biden last month ordered intelligence agencies to investigate the origin of the pandemic, including the lab leak theory.
the leak hypothesis had been floated earlier during the global outbreak, including by biden's predecessor donald trump, but was widely dismissed as a conspiracy theory.
but it has gained increasing traction recently, fueled by reports that three researchers from the wuhan institute of virology became sick in 2019 after visiting a bat cave in the southwestern chinese province of yunnan.
shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called "gain-of-function" experiments in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.
according to the new york times, in 2017 shi and her colleagues at the wuhan laboratory published a report on an experiment "in which they created new hybrid bat coronaviruses by mixing and matching parts of several existing ones — including at least one that was nearly transmissible to humans — in order to study their ability to infect and replicate in human cells.
"but in an email to the paper, shi said her experiments differed from gain-of-function experiments since they did not seek to make a virus more dangerous.
instead they were trying to understand how the virus might jump across species.
"my lab has never conducted or cooperated in conducting gof experiments that enhance the virulence of viruses," she said.
jh/st/an ex-naval officer charged for not wearing a mask in numerous places returned to court again on tuesday (15 june) claiming that it was not possible for her to have a fair hearing due to previous cases involving the singapore armed forces.
a nurse accused of neglect in diego maradona's death told argentine prosecutors on monday that he was following orders "not to disturb" the football icon while he slept.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisthere are three growing businesses that should be cheap enough to add to your investment watchlist.
the post 3 undervalued gems that you can add to your watchlist appeared first on the smart investor.
the ministry of health (moh) on monday (14 june) confirmed 25 new covid-19 cases in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,301. malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
an american father-son duo admitted to helping orchestrate former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court on monday.
switzerland on sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first european country to ban synthetic pesticides following a bitterly fought campaign.
elon musk tweeted that he's decided to sell his last remaining house a week after a report said he and others billionaires paid little or no income taxes for several years.
diabetes indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at diabetes warning signs and symptoms.
with its property development arm now privatised, capitaland is seeking new grounds with a sharpened focus on investment management.
here's what investors should know about the move.
in march this year, capitaland, known for putting a shopping mall in every possible neighbourhood estate (and somehow [.
.
. ]
the post capitaland dividends & share price guide: is it worth buying?
appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
spain opened their euro 2020 campaign with a goalless draw against sweden in seville on monday after their preparations were badly affected by covid-19, while patrik schick scored one of the championship's great goals in the czech republic's 2-0 win over scotland.
at least 12 people were killed and nearly 140 others injured when a gas line exploded in a residential compound in central china's hubei province on sunday, local officials said.
search for control scalp psoriasis.
these treatments for scalp psoriasis are more affordable than everthe philippines will extend a key military pact with the united states for another six months, its foreign minister said monday, after months-long negotiations between the two countries.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
major us indices finished at fresh records monday as global equity markets began the week cautiously ahead of a much-anticipated federal reserve meeting.
lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
an american father-son duo accused of orchestrating former nissan chief carlos ghosn's audacious escape from japan admitted their role monday as they made their first appearance before a tokyo court.
the death toll from a gas blast that ripped through a residential compound in central china has risen to 25, beijing's state media reported monday, as authorities continued a desperate rescue operation.
ukrainian leader volodymyr zelensky monday said us president joe biden should have met him before his high-profile summit with russia's vladimir putin as they could resolve nothing on ukraine without kiev at the table.
amazon.
comwhen you want protection that goes beyond just covering your medical costs, critical illness insurance is the logical choice.
but with so many options out there, which ones are best for you?
we investigate in this article.
in a nutshell, critical illness insurance is insurance [.
.
. ]
the post best critical illness insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
myanmar's ambassador to the united nations, who has refused to leave his post despite being fired after the february coup, has called for "effective collective measures" against the junta, ahead of expected security council talks on the situation.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing • china has accused the group of seven (g-7) of "political manipulation" after it criticised beijing over its human rights record in xinjiang and hong kong.
in a communique after their summit, g-7 leaders slammed china over abuses against minorities in xinjiang and pro-democracy activists in hong kong, while united states president joe biden called for beijing to "start acting more responsibly in terms of international norms on human rights".
the chinese embassy in britain responded angrily yesterday, and accused the g-7 of "interfering".
"the g-7 takes advantage of xinjiang-related issues to engage in political manipulation and interfere in china's internal affairs, which we firmly oppose," an embassy spokesman said in a statement.
it also accused the g-7 of "lies, rumours and baseless accusations".
human rights groups have criticised china's human rights record in the treatment of uighurs, a muslim ethnic minority in xinjiang.
china has denied allegations that it is waging "genocide" by forcing uighurs and people from other ethnic-turkic minorities into internment camps in xinjiang.
at the summit, leaders of the seven wealthy nations announced a number of pledges on covid-19 vaccinations, climate change, rights and trade.
they also called for a new investigation in china into the origins of covid-19 prompting a response from the chinese embassy saying the work needs to be done in a "scientific, objective and fair manner", without agreeing to a new probe.
"the current epidemic is still raging around the world, and the traceability work should be carried out by global scientists and should not be politicised," the embassy said.
the coronavirus was first reported in central china in late 2019, and the world health organisation sent a team of international experts in january to probe its origins.
but their long-delayed report published in march drew no firm conclusions, and the investigation has since faced criticism for lacking transparency and access.
the g-7 also announced a new infrastructure fund that mr biden said would be "much more equitable" than china's belt and road initiative.
the chinese embassy said in response that the "accusations against china on economic and trade issues in the communique are inconsistent with the facts and are unreasonable".
agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
anger against the italian brand in chinaauthordatecategoryhong kong — hong kong singer karen mok suffered a backlash in china because of an outfit she wore in a new music video.
she has since apologised for her actions.
over the weekend, the 51-year-old singer held her karen mok the ultimate grand slam show concert in hong kong.
last week, mok launched her latest album, the voyage, which contained woman for all seasons, a reissue of her 2001 song of the same name.
mok was seen wearing a bathrobe from the italian luxury brand dolce & gabbana (d&g) in the music video for the new song.
she also used the photo of her in the robe as her profile picture on weibo, the chinese micro-blogging site.
this caused a backlash in china, where many had been angered by a 2018 d&g campaign they viewed as culturally insensitive.
karen mok removed photos of her wearing the outfit from her socials and all platforms.
picture: instagramsome chinese netizens demanded to know why the singer was promoting the brand while others even called for a boycott of mok.
on saturday (june 12), the topic trended on weibo for several hours.
the singer has since removed photos of her wearing the dolce & gabbana outfit from her social media accounts and the music video from all platforms, reported the straits times.
mok's agency and designer, who were involved in the choice of the outfit, have also apologised on weibo.
in late 2018, d&g caused an uproar in china when footage from its advertising campaign showed a chinese model in a red d&g dress struggling to eat italian foods such as spaghetti and cannoli pastry with chopsticks.
the issue escalated after screenshots of messages sent from d&g co-founder stefano gabbana's instagram account were leaked, in which he allegedly said negative things about china.
following that incident, several celebrities such as singer karry wang and actress dilraba dilmurat ended their ties with the brand.
born on june 2, 1970, karen joy morris, known popularly as karen mok is a leading asian pop singer and actress with a career spanning three decades.
she was the first female hong kong singer to win the golden melody award and has won it a total of three times.
she has released 17 solo studio albums, starred in over 40 movies, has over 15 million followers on leading chinese social media site weibo and holds the guinness world record for the highest altitude music concert.
/tisgfollow us on social mediasend in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg send in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all saints home in hougang underwent cleaning and disinfection after a staff member tested positive for covid-19 last saturday (june 12).
the 23-year-old male indian national, who works as a nursing aide, tested positive for the virus during the home's surveillance testing for staff members on june 11. an individual test was done on him the same day, with a negative result for covid-19.
but another test administered on june 12 was positive.
"his ct (cycle threshold) value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result is positive," said the ministry of health (moh) on sunday.
"he is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus rna from a past infection, which is no longer transmissible and infective to others, but we have taken all necessary public health actions.
"a high ct value, typically above 30, suggests that it is not a recent infection and very likely even past the period when a person could infect others.
a positive serology test suggests that the infection is not so recent.
the worker had received his first dose of covid-19 vaccine on march 10 and the second dose on march 31. he is currently warded at the national centre for infectious diseases.
staff members and families of the residents have been notified, said all saints home in a media release on sunday.
staff and residents at the home were tested for the virus.
all test results were negative.
visitation to all nursing homes continues to be suspended till june 20. this follows the discovery of a covid-19 cluster at the mindsville @ napiri adult disability home in early june, a facility in hougang for adults with intellectual disabilities.
as at june 8, there were 32 cases there.
the suspension will reduce the risk of importing covid-19 into such settings, and the risk of cross-transmission, said moh on june 4. visits to homes serving the elderly resumed last year on june 19, after being suspended for almost three months.
that suspension came after a cluster of covid-19 infections emerged at lee ah mooi old age home in thomson, followed by another cluster of 15 cases in acacia home a welfare home in admiralty for the destitute.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
milan: the head of the eu drug regulator's covid-19 task force said on sunday that astrazeneca's coronavirus vaccine had a favourable risk-benefit profile for all age groups and particularly for those aged over 60. italian newspaper la stampa earlier quoted european medicines agency (ema) task force chief marco cavaleri as saying countries should avoid giving the vaccine to people aged over 60 in addition to younger age groups, amid fears over very rare blood clotting and as alternative vaccines become available.
"unfortunately my words have not been interpreted correctly in a recent interview with la stampa," cavaleri said in a statement to reuters.
the astrazeneca shot "maintains a favourable benefit-risk profile in all ages but particularly in the elderly above 60", he said.
the ema's position is that the astrazeneca shot is safe and can be used for all age groups over 18.  however several european union member states have stopped administering it to people below a certain age, usually ranging from 50 to 65, restricting its use to older people, due to very rare cases of blood clotting, mainly among young people.
on sunday evening, la stampa changed the headline on its article online and added a clarification with cavaleri's later comments to its article.
la stampa editor massimo giannini said he had no further comment.
earlier this week the italian government said it would restrict the use of the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, after a teenager who had received the shot died from a rare form of blood clotting.
italian health minister roberto speranza told reporters on sunday that italy will continue to use the astrazeneca vaccine on the over 60s, including those who have not received a first jab.
like many european countries, italy briefly halted astrazeneca inoculations in march over concerns about the rare blood clotting problems.
it resumed them the following month with the recommendation that the product be "preferably" used for people over the age of 60, after the ema said its benefits outweighed any risks.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
treasury yields edged higher monday as investors prepared for a key federal reserve meeting later in the week.
stocks were mixed in thin trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
46% after hitting three-month lows on thursday and notching their biggest weekly slide since december last week.
stocks saw modest gains in japan and a drop in south korea.
trading volumes were light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were little changed after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields trending downward, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped over the weekend after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
oil futures advanced.
for market commentary, follow the mliv blog.
here are some key events to watch this week:these are some of the main moves in markets:
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
(bloomberg) the skyrocketing price of shipping goods across the globe may hit your pocketbook sooner than you think from that cup of coffee you get each morning to the toys you were thinking of buying your kids.
transporting a 40-foot steel container of cargo by sea from shanghai to rotterdam now costs a record us$10,522, a whopping 547 per cent higher than the seasonal average over the last five years, according to drewry shipping.
with upwards of 80 per cent of all goods trade transported by sea, freight-cost surges are threatening to boost the price of everything from toys, furniture and car parts to coffee, sugar and anchovies, compounding concerns in global markets already bracing for accelerating inflation.
"in 40 years in toy retailing i have never known such challenging conditions from the point of view of pricing," gary grant, the founder and executive chairman of the uk toy shop the entertainer, said in a interview.
he has had to stop importing giant teddy bears from china because their retail price would have had to double to add in higher freight costs.
"will this have an impact on retail prices?
my answer has to be yes.
"a confluence of factors soaring demand, a shortage of containers, saturated ports and too few ships and dock workers have contributed to the squeeze on transportation capacity on every freight path.
recent covid outbreaks in asian export hubs like china have made matters worse.
the pain is most acutely felt on longer-distance routes, making shipping from shanghai to rotterdam 67 per cent more expensive than to the us west coast, for instance.
often dismissed as having an insignificant impact on inflation because they were a tiny part of the overall expense, rising shipping costs are now forcing some economists to pay them a bit more attention.
although still seen as a relatively minor input, hsbc holdings estimates that a 205 per cent increase in container shipping costs over the past year could raise euro-area producer prices by as much as 2 per cent.
at the retail level, vendors are faced with three choices: halt trade, raise prices or absorb the cost to pass it on later, all of which would effectively mean more expensive goods, said jordi espin, strategic relations manager at the european shippers' council, a brussels-based trade group that represents about 100,000 retailers, wholesalers and manufacturers.
"these costs are already being passed to consumers," he said.
prices for customers are rising in other ways, too.
for instance, anchovies from peru have largely stopped being imported into europe because with the higher freight costs they're not competitive relative to what's available locally, espin said.
also, european olive growers can no longer afford to export to the us, he said.
meanwhile, shipping bottlenecks and costs are hurting the transport of arabica coffee beans, favoured by starbucks, and robusta beans used to make instant coffee, which are largely sourced from asia.
few industry observers expect container rates to retreat much any time soon.
lars jensen, ceo of consultant vespucci maritime in copenhagen, said on a flexport webinar last week that there's "zero slack in the system.
"closely held french shipping company cma cgm sa, which raked in net income of us$2.
1 billion in the first quarter compared with us$48 million in the year-ago period, indicated recently that it expects "sustained demand for the transportation of consumer goods" to continue throughout the year.
freight costs are more painful for companies that move clunky, low-value items like toys and furniture.
"if they are bulky products it means you can't get very many in the container and that will have a significant impact on the landed price of the goods," said the entertainer's grant.
for some lower-value furniture makers, freight now makes up about 62 per cent of the retail value, according to alan murphy, ceo of consultant sea-intelligence in copenhagen.
"you simply can't survive on this," he said.
"someone is bleeding very hard.
"companies are desperately trying to work around the higher costs.
some have stopped exporting to certain locations while others are looking for goods or raw materials from nearer locations, according to philip damas, founder and operational head of drewry supply chain advisors.
"the longer these extreme shipping freight rates last, the more companies will take structural measures to shorten their supply chains," damas said.
"few companies can absorb a 15 per cent increase in total delivered costs for internationally traded products. "
some firms in europe are resorting to extreme methods, like using truck convoys to get products including automotive parts, bikes and scooters from china, said espin at the european shippers' council.
central bankers have so far been sanguine about the phenomenon, arguing that the rise in consumer prices tied to supply hiccups won't last.
european central bank president christine lagarde said on june 10 that while supply-chain bottlenecks would push up production prices and the headline inflation rate is expected to rise further in the second half of this year, the effect will fade.
several factors explain the relative lack of concern.
shipping costs only constitute a small fraction of the final price of a manufactured good, with economists at goldman sachs group estimating in march when china-europe rates were about half of current levels that internationally they made up less than 1 per cent.
to top that, companies have annual contracts with the container lines, so the prices they've locked in are considerably lower than the headline-grabbing spot rates.
although the latest round of contract negotiations in may reflected the stronger spot market, hsbc trade economist shanella rajanayagam said that "the longer-term rates are much much lower than the spot rates, even if they are feeding through.
"with the end of lockdowns consumer demand is likely to shift to services from goods, but "the risk of course is that higher shipping costs persist especially given ongoing shipping disruption and that producers become more willing to pass these higher costs on to consumers," rajanayagam said.
while many economists note that even a full pass-through of higher shipping fares to consumers will have a marginal effect on headline inflation, volker wieland, a professor of economics at the goethe university in frankfurt and a member of the german government's council of economic advisers, warns that they might not be sufficiently factored in.
"even if the order of magnitude is smaller than estimated, the dynamic builds over a year and has significant effects," he said.
"that means there's a danger we're underestimating the impact.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the rolls-royce ghost extended is a masterpiece of engineering with its impressive power, immense comfort, and innovative technology providing you with a luxurious experience unlike any other.
when the original ghost debuted in 2009, it had a mixed reception.
some argued that it was not a proper rolls royce, conceived as the "baby version" of the phantom.
however, the model soon attracted a loyal customer base, and has gone on to become rolls-royce's most successful model in the marque's 116-year history.
wanting to raise the bar and meet the demands of their customers, this new second generation ghost was curated with direct feedback from rolls-royce's existing customer base.
the company spared no expense in engineering a car that is dynamic, extremely comfortable and minimalistic at the same time.
what they ended up with, is nothing short of brilliant.
the new ghost extended is completely hand-built from the ground up, using a new proprietary aluminium spaceframe that gave designers the freedom to create a truly bespoke car.
the first thing you'll immediately notice when you approach the car is the sheer size.
the new rolls-royce ghost comes in two variants: the standard model comes in at 5.
5metres long, while this extended version stretches that to 5.
7metres.
to put that into perspective, a regular toyota altis is only 4.
5metres long, thus making the ghost feel like an actual yacht on the road.
even though the ghost extended is ridiculously long, the new 'post opulent' design theme and sharp bow lines give this car a sleek and modern look.
upfront, the spirit of ecstasy sits elegantly on the front bonnet.
a showpiece that symbolises speed with silence, the hood ornament is virtually impossible to steal, retracting into the car as soon as it senses that someone is tampering with it.
the width of the car has also been increased by 30mm.
combined with the angular headlights, this gives the ghost extended an assertive yet beautiful front end.
moving to the sides, a single stroke is used to provide depth to the silhouette of the car.
the car sits on big 21-inch wheels, bearing the rolls-royce logo that always remains upright while the vehicle is in motion, a feature on all modern rolls-royce vehicles.
100 kilograms of acoustic damping materials are used throughout the car, and some are even incorporated into the tyres, ensuring the quietest ride possible.
the roofline slowly tapers off towards the rear, with squarish tail lights that have been modernised to fit the new design profile.
the boot is massive, with a volume of 500 litres.
this means that whatever you're carrying, be it golf bags or luggage, can easily fit in the rear.
like the previous generation, the car has rear suicide doors.
with power-assisted functionality included, it enables passengers to effortlessly open and closes the doors without needing to use any kind of force.
the iconic rolls-royce umbrellas are embedded within each rear door.
these special umbrellas are coated with teflon, and when stowed inside the doors, air can be channelled through to dry them, ready for their next use.
when designing the new ghost extended, rolls-royce envisioned a car that was not only predominantly chauffeur-driven, but a vehicle that also enabled its customers to drive with confidence.
as such, much of the interior is very driver-centric.
instead of going all out with modern technology like most other manufacturers, the designers chose to integrate technology into their signature traditional designs, resulting in a "retro-modern" feel that looks gorgeous.
the gauge cluster is one good example, with digital tachometers placed within analogue metal frames.
most of the buttons in the car are physical too, a welcome sight in an industry where most car features are now toggled via touchscreens.
speaking of touchscreens, the ghost extended does come with a very responsive centre console touchscreen.
an all-new illuminated fascia is also mounted on the passenger side dashboard.
crafted with 152 leds and crafted with more than 90,000 laser-etched dots across the surface, it illuminates while the vehicle is in operation, giving out what the rolls-royce designers call a "post opulent" feel to the cabin.
moving on to the rear, you'll enter a cocoon of lush and very expensive materials.
all of the leather in a rolls-royce are sourced from cattle raised at high altitudes and are subjected to the automotive industry's most exhaustive quality control checks, ensuring that only the best ends up in the cars.
similar to the illuminated fascia at the front, the roof lining is also fitted with rolls-royce's signature starlight headliner.
over 1000 individual leds are hand-woven into the custom roof liner, and can be toggled to give the cabin the ambience of a beautiful night sky.
upon request, rolls-royce can even produce custom star constellations that only appear on your birthday, or shooting stars that cross the cabin at random intervals.
the rear legroom is fantastic, thanks to the extra 170mm of length which starts from behind the b-pillars of the ghost extended.
once seated, two gigantic screens can be deployed from the front seats, allowing rear passengers to enjoy multimedia entertainment such as movies or even satellite television.
the screens also come with hdmi connectivity, allowing passengers to connect things such as laptops or gaming consoles.
also read: rolls-royce creates 'most refined picnic facility on earth'there is one downside to this car; the rear screens are only 720p resolution.
in a world where high-definition screens are commonplace, you can notice a slight difference in quality when browsing content.
however, i'm sure with the seemingly limitless customisation that rolls-royce offers, fitting better screens should be no issue.
the most impressive feature of the cabin by far is the sound system.
a powerful amplifier controls 18 speakers.
additionally, the design of certain elements of the car, such as the door sills and materials used across the cabin, help to create an enclosed resonance audio chamber.
the result?
a cabin with near cinema-grade acoustics.
it is truly an experience unlike any other.
oh, did i mention that each seat in the cabin also comes with heating and ventilation, as well as massage functionality?
of course, the ghost extended has it all.
client feedback asking for near-instant torque led engineers to further develop the rolls-royce 6.
75-litre twin-turbocharged v12 petrol engine.
this new engine profile is unique to the ghost, delivering 563bhp and a whopping 850nm/627lb-ft of torque.
maximum torque is available from just 1600rpm.
this enables the car to accelerate from 0-100km/h in just 4.
8 seconds, a massive feat considering the ghost extended weighs over 2.
5tonnes.
why someone would want to do that in a rolls-royce is beyond me, but the car is able to do it if you so wish.
the satellite-aided 8-speed automatic transmission pre-selects gears based on the behaviour of the driver and its location geographically, ensuring the smoothest ride possible in any condition.
power is delivered effortlessly to all four wheels, with the ghost now being offered with all-wheel drive as well as all-wheel steering.
our resident host jackie had the esteemed opportunity to test drive the new ghost extended.
in his words, he summed up the car as "driving a cloud with wheels".
it has an extremely refined drive, and nothing else comes close.
even though the steering is light, there is still good road feedback while driving.
the two things that surprised him the most were the power delivery and handling.
the ghost extended looks gentle, until he puts his foot down.
obviously, the acceleration is not as brutal as traditional sports cars, but the power does come quickly, and he could overtake other vehicles on the road with ease.
in a car that is as heavy as the ghost extended, it truly is amazing.
handling on the other hand is where the car really shines.
the ghost extended now comes with what rolls-royce dubs the planar suspension system.
this extensive suspension assembly works alongside the flagbearer system, which uses cameras to read the road conditions ahead and prepares the suspension system for any changes.
all of these features enable the car to handle corners with ease.
the team expected the car to have lots of body roll, but it was civilised through the corners.
it grips well to the road, and the suspension system ironed out virtually everything that crossed the ghost's path.
the rolls-royce ghost extended, the ultimate gentlemen's entourage.
of course, with such insane features, this car has to have a ridiculous price tag.
starting at $1.
2 million for the regular ghost and $1.
5 million for the extended variant, it's not a sum most people can pull out of their left pocket at any time.
plus, with the limitless number of options available for each rolls-royce, you'll start to see the price skyrocket.
this example that we tested is on sale for a cool $1.
95 million, and even rolls-royce claims this is still a "base model".
however, if you're a person that spares no expense when it comes to the finer things in life, and you are able to glance past (and afford) the hefty price tag, then this car is a definite must-have.
also read: rolls-royce creates its latest phantom collection of 25 super-luxury carsyou won't get the same stares as other individuals who prance around in flashy ferraris or lamborghinis.
however, those that do stare, know that you're a king.
price:from s$1,418,888**performance:engine: 6750cc, twin-turbocharged v12, petrolpower: 563bhp @ 5000rpmtorque: 850nm/627lb-ft @ 1600rpmfuel consumption:0-100km/h: 4.
8 secondstop speed: 250km/hdrivetrain: 8-speed automatic, all-wheel drivebrakes: disc brakesmeasurements:wheelbase: 5,716mmdimensions (lxwxh): 5,716mm x 2,148mm x 1,571mmfuel tank capacity:boot capacity: 500 litresweight: 2,530kgfeatures:front & rear massage seatsextended leather headlinerilluminated fasciashooting star headlinerrolls royce bespoke audioeffortless doorshead-up displayactive cruise controlpark assistanthigh-beam assistanceapple carplay(features are subject to bespoke customisation)this article was first published in motorist.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
at least 700 people who had visited ion orchard in the past two weeks turned up to get tested for covid-19 at two medical centres yesterday.
about 600 people were tested at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city, while about 100 went to raffles medical centre in shaw centre.
a fullerton health spokesman said: "it was slightly busier than usual, but was well within our testing centre's capacity, and we were able to accommodate smoothly.
"long lines formed outside and inside raffles medical in shaw centre as people waited for their turn to get swabbed from 8.
30 am.
on friday, the ministry of health reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion had tested positive for covid-19.
she is the third worker at ion to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall and offer testing to mall visitors and staff.
most of the people in the line said they were getting tested just to be safe.
others, like housewife madam aparna, 71, said she and her husband wanted to be tested for the safety of the people around them.
"we are doing it more for the others.
"the couple had visited the daiso outlet in ion on tuesday for about 30 minutes.
madam aparna added that they have both been fully vaccinated and feel safe.
ms margie ceitom, 39, a maid who was at shaw centre with her employer, said she did not have any symptoms, but since she and her employer had visited ion on may 27, the two of them decided to get tested.
another man in the line, who wanted to be known only as mr ng, 51, said he could not remember when he visited ion but had received a message from the tracetogether app a few days ago.
he said: "the message said i may have been exposed to a covid-19 case.
"mr ng, who is a manager, added that he did not feel nervous.
he said that the decision to get tested was to be responsible and to make sure he was safe.
mr james quan, 53, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, said the level 8 carpark at ion is being used as a testing site for the mall's staff.
in a letter to tenants dated june 11 and seen by the sunday times, all store staff were told to register for a swab test before 12 pm yesterday using an online link.
in the letter, ion reminded store staff to be punctual for their appointed slot to avoid crowding.
mr quan, who works from home, said staff at his shop were being tested from 4pm yesterday.
he added that this was the weekend before father's day, which falls on june 20, and stores may have been anticipating more sales because shoppers would have planned to buy gifts.
mr quan said he was not worried that his business would be affected, as he has three other outlets, including an online site.
people were still using the ion paterson link to get to other malls or to exit orchard mrt station.
at raffles city shopping centre, ms annie ang, who is in her late 50s, and her friend sharon ho, who is in her 60s, were queuing up to get tested at fullerton health testing centre.
ms ang said: "we arrived here at about 2pm.
.
.
i took only 20 minutes to complete everything.
"the women live near ion and went there to buy food on june 7. ion will be shut for four days from 7am yesterday until 7am on wednesday for cleaning and disinfecting works after moh confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to june 11 are offered free covid-19 testing from yesterday.
staff who worked at the mall from may 28 will also be tested.
• additional reporting by alphonsus chernjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when five-year-old travis wong achieved distinction in the grade 8 violin performance examination conducted by london-based associated board of the royal schools of music (abrsm) in april, his family was surprised.
travis, who turned six last month, picked up the violin when he was three.
he had less than four months to master four pieces of music after his first test, the grade 5 violin performance exam, last december.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement on sunday (june 13).
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till june 15 to help f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms as well as 20 per cent funding of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from monday, some covid-19 restrictions will be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in eateries will be allowed only from june 21, assuming the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being reintroduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march 2020 to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign  boosted  its sales and social media presence, slake is  now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
mirroring esg's sentiment, ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
los angeles actor chris hemsworth wished avengers co-star chris evans, who turned 40 on sunday (june 13), a happy birthday on instagram.
"happy 40th birthday, chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book," he wrote to the actor who played captain america in the marvel movies.
however, the photo he posted was of himself and a different chris actor chris pratt.
the photo appeared to have been taken on the set of the recently wrapped marvel movie thor: love and thunder, in which both hemsworth, 37, and pratt, 41, are reprising their roles as thor and star-lord respectively.
fans lapped up the joke in the comments section, with one saying: "man.
chris has changed over the years.
"others brought up yet another famous chris, saying: "come on.
.
.
.
that's obviously chris pine.
"not a part of the marvel cinematic universe, pine, 40, has appeared in two wonder woman films, which are based on the rival dc comics.
another commenter then added to the confusion by referring to hemsworth's actor brother with: "good one, liam.
"the birthday boy chris has yet to respond.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
eu vice-president maros sefcovic asserts that the northern ireland protocol obliges us to begin imposing restrictions and disruptive checks on sausages and other chilled meats entering northern ireland at the end of this month.
his demand that we "respect the rule of law" on the northern ireland protocol misses the point.
the rule of law means being true to your constitution and your laws.
it means respecting your courts and their judgments.
above all, it means remembering that, in a democracy like ours, all power comes from the people.
this principle is enshrined in the magna carta.
our duty is to follow our constitution, and to listen to, and to act upon, the wishes of our people.
and what do those people say?my constituents in wakefield think it is bonkers that food produced in the uk cannot be sold in northern ireland, which is as much a part of the uk as our town is.
nor do i think that ordinary people, whether in the uk or the eu, have any time for politicians or bureaucrats unable to show enough flexibility or goodwill to resolve this issue amicably.
ordinary citizens in the uk and the eu don't obsess about the northern ireland protocol.
they want the politicians and bureaucrats to get off their high horses and cut a deal.
they cannot understand why an english, scottish or welsh sausage that has been happily munched in northern ireland for decades suddenly requires intrusive checks which frustrate consumer choice and impose excessive costs.
the eu's bureaucratic obsession with creating pointless barriers between england, scotland and wales trading freely with northern ireland has done little except increase the risk of a long-buried conflict erupting again.
humankind is planning trips to mars!
is the eu really telling the world that organising the supply of food between two parts of the same country without unnecessary delay is beyond it?the protocol itself is hardly sacrosanct anyway.
brussels agreed to delay implementing the border checks in the original withdrawal agreement.
there is no reason why our decision to extend the delay should prove problematic.
if implementing the protocol will cause unintended hardship for ordinary people and impede business, why not simply change it?i have no doubt that the people of the united states, our most stalwart ally, will support our cause.
the british and american people are bonded by a common civilisation predicated on democracy, freedom and fairness.
joe biden, speaking at raf mildenhall last week, was clear-sighted in setting out his priorities: "democracies of the world are standing together to tackle the toughest challenges and the issues that matter most to our future. "
he had in mind things long dead stirring in russia, ukraine, and the baltic states, and fears of new conflicts in china and the far east.
yet the eu is choosing to focus on fighting irrelevant battles with its friends such as the uk and switzerland with whom the eu shares so much.
that is bureaucratic blindness at its worst.
to build barriers does not make the eu stronger.
it does not improve choice or increase wealth for eu citizens.
it will merely irritate people, and make the eu an irrelevant laughing stock.
i congratulate the prime minister on concluding the new atlantic charter with president biden.
just like churchill and roosevelt before them, the two leaders have pledged to work together to tackle the greatest challenges of our time, including defending democracy, reaffirming collective security, and building a fair global trading system.
the free world needs a strong and engaged united states.
i celebrate the fact the american president has picked up the mantle of leadership.
i am confident he knows that in defending democracy, he is compelled to support the wishes of a sovereign state against unelected bureaucrats.
it is my hope that our two nations set an example to brussels and the world by concluding an expansive, comprehensive free- trade deal.
by acting together, the united kingdom and the united states can forge a better future.
it is time for us to lead the world guided by our citizen-centric democracy.
in contrast, by holding us to a fanatical interpretation of the northern ireland protocol, brussels achieves nothing.
it merely displays its own citizen-loathing half-baked protectionist ideology.
by imran ahmad khan mp (@imranahmadkhan)  see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
carbis bay, england (reuters, bloomberg) the group of seven (g-7) nations confirmed a promise to deliver at least one billion extra doses of covid-19 vaccines over the next year, even as they laid out plans to tackle any future pandemic.
the vaccine pledge was the most dramatic element of the bloc's effort to work together to bring an end to the covid-19 pandemic spelled out in a joint communique issued at the end of the three-day summit.
but the grouping also cast an eye to the future.
it pledged, among other things, to increase early warning systems and to shorten the cycle for the development of safe and effective vaccines from 300 days to 100. united states president joe biden said the summit had rallied the world's democracies to deliver on the challenges of the age.
"america is back at the table and fully engaged," he told reporters after the summit in south-west england, adding that the north atlantic treaty organisation's mutual defence was a "sacred obligation" and that democracies were in a "contest with autocracies".
on a busy final day, the group of leading economies also agreed to raise contributions to meet an overdue spending pledge of us$100 billion (s$133 billion) a year by rich countries to help poorer ones cut carbon emissions and cope with global warming, but campaigners said firm cash promises were missing.
the leaders had strong words for china and russia.
the g-7 condemned russia for "destabilising behaviour", and called on moscow to pursue hackers carrying out ransomware attacks from its soil.
"we reaffirm our call on russia to stop its destabilising behaviour and malign activities, including its interference in other countries' democratic systems, and to fulfil its international human rights obligations and commitments," the leaders said.
the g-7 cited china explicitly on human rights issues in xinjiang and hong kong, but omitted any mention of beijing in the section on forced labour practices.
the g-7 called "on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang, and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration and the basic law".
still, the coronavirus was clearly the priority during the summit.
the communique said: "total g-7 commitments since the start of the pandemic provide for a total of over two billion vaccine doses, with the commitments since we last met in february 2021, including here in carbis bay, providing for one billion doses over the next year.
"many of the doses will flow through covax, a global vaccine-buying system backed by the world health organisation and gavi, the vaccine alliance.
experts said the plan is a boost to covax, which has so far distributed only 83 million shots worldwide.
covax has struggled to secure deliveries as wealthy nations reserve enough shots to vaccinate their populations several times over.
"it's going to rescue covax from its pretty dire predicament right now, so it's a very significant step," said mr stephen morrison, director of the global health policy centre at the centre for strategic and international studies, a think-tank.
at the same time, some experts said the commitment falls far short of the five billion to six billion doses needed by poorer nations.
the figure of more than two billion doses includes a much wider array of contributions already offered, as well future exports, according to a european official.
so far, the g-7 countries have promised only as many as 700 million truly new doses, funded in part by previously announced aid.
if doses already announced in recent weeks by g-7 and eu nations are included, the tally grows to 870 million doses, as the communique notes.
to reach the 1 billion figure, g-7 officials included pledges made starting back in february.
the biggest batches come from countries that had cornered the market early on for domestic use.
the us and britain account for nearly all the new pledges – after they steered hundreds of millions of doses produced on their soil for their own citizens, while restricting exports for months.
the pledges come as the bloc grapples with another question – whether and how to lift intellectual-property rights protections for the vaccines.
biden threw his weight behind that idea but it has languished after german chancellor angela merkel opposed it.
the communique pledged only to "support manufacturing in low-income countries," but didn't say specifically how.
it noted the "importance of intellectual property" and the "positive impact" of voluntary licensing – both clauses that reflect the view of countries opposed to a waiver.
"we will explore all options to ensure affordable and accessible covid-19 tools for the poorest countries," it said.
despite some lingering resentment, the new doses pledged at the summit are a welcome sign to nations without domestic vaccine production that have been desperately awaiting shots.
the new and existing pledges include:- 500 million pfizer doses pledged by the us, for delivery beginning in august and through 2022, on top of 80 million biden previously announced;- 100 million doses pledged by britain from a mix of manufacturers;- as many as 100 million doses pledged by canada at the summit; and- 100 million doses pledged by the eu at a meeting last month, including 75 million from germany, france and italy – the eu's g-7 members.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore heart conditions associated with the covid-19 mrna vaccine are extremely rare, and it remains unclear if the vaccines are responsible for them, experts told the straits times after a handful of cases raised some concerns.
six individuals here were reported to have suffered myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart) after getting an mrna vaccine, among whom four are young men less than 30 years old.
the other two are a man and a woman both aged above 40. the health sciences authority (hsa) said most of the cases had occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine, and that all have recovered or been discharged well from hospital.
the united states and israel two major users of the mrna vaccines have also reported a slightly increased risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men after the second dose of mrna vaccination.
but there is no need to be overly concerned as these events are rare, experts said.
professor ooi eng eong, an expert on emerging infectious diseases at duke-nus medical school, said it also remains unclear if it is indeed mrna vaccines causing these adverse events and how vaccination could have resulted in them.
as at june 7, more than 1,888,000 people in singapore have received both doses of mrna vaccines by either pfizer biontech or moderna.
an article on friday (june 11) by the american academy of paediatrics cited a rate of 16 cases of myocarditis/pericarditis per million second doses in people aged 16 to 39 years old.
such inflammation of the heart was also reported in some covid-19 patients last year, most likely the result of an overactive immune system giving rise to the inflammation.
vaccine maker moderna issued a statement on friday stating that it is aware of reports of such cases after people took its vaccine, but added that it has not established a causal association with its vaccine after carefully reviewing the available safety data to date.
as mrna vaccines lead to a similar, but milder, immune response, they could also give rise to inflammation, said prof ooi.
"but these cases, if indeed caused by the vaccine, will be much fewer compared with covid-19-induced heart inflammation ones.
"it is also important to note that the occurrence of some rare events is natural for any vaccine, especially when large numbers have been vaccinated, he stressed.
"no other vaccine has come under the scrutiny as covid-19 vaccines.
in about six months, over 1.
5 billion people have been vaccinated under close observation," he added.
he said it is unclear why young men may be more susceptible, and that it is difficult to conduct the necessary studies to determine a correlation.
"nonetheless, we can expect more detailed description of what happens to these cases in the coming months, from those that have been treated in the us and israel.
the picture may become clearer then.
"some 1.
5 million cases of myocarditis are reported worldwide a year, with population prevalence varying widely, said cardiologist chuang hsuan-hung, who practises at the asian heart & vascular centre.
myocarditis is triggered by various factors and is not a distinct cardiovascular disease.
its exact prevalence in singapore is not known.
the hsa said that in general, five to seven individuals per 100,000 people a year are hospitalised for myocarditis or pericarditis.
worldwide, viral infections are the most frequent cause of myocarditis.
other causes include drugs, autoimmune diseases and other kinds of infections, including by bacteria and parasites.
although inflammation of the heart can affect all age groups, myocarditis and pericarditis do occur more often in young adults, and pericarditis more commonly affects middle-aged adults, dr chuang added.
dr chuang said that enforced rest was crucial when one is recovering.
dr mak koon-hou, a cardiologist at gleneagles medical centre, said young adults are more prone to these conditions as they are more likely to mount a greater inflammatory response.
exercising increases the risk of myocarditis.
when a person exercises, the demand on the heart increases.
if the heart muscle is already inflamed, strenuous physical activity may worsen the amount of damage to the heart muscle, adversely affecting its function, dr mak said.
"it may result in abnormal heart rhythm and become potentially lethal.
"in general, activities such as jogging, skipping, aerobic dancing, hiking especially with a load and cycling at least 16kmh are considered strenuous activities.
it is important to note how one feels and check with the doctor regarding the most suitable type and intensity of exercise, dr mak said.
"if a person feels tired, breathless, discomfort in the chest, palpitations and giddiness, it is best to stop or reduce the intensity.
heart rates are easily measured nowadays with phones and oximeters.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia's federal territories of kuala lumpur and putrajaya are expected to reach herd immunity by august earlier than planned as the government said more people were able to receive their jabs with the opening of more vaccination centres (ppv).
as of july 11, the country has vaccinated more than 13 per cent or 4,227,554 of its 32 million population with at least one dose, health minister adham baba said, adding that more than half of the adults in the country have registered for the immunisation programme.
selangor recorded the highest number of people who completed both doses at 170,855 people, followed by sarawak (133,516), kuala lumpur (122,564), perak (121,740) and johor (118,317).
there were no figures on how many people have been vaccinated in putrajaya, malaysia's administrative capital located about an hour's drive south of kuala lumpur.
the federal territory of kl has 1.
8 million people and putrajaya 92,000, according to government estimates.
as the country gradually emerges from the pandemic, the government has begun working on a national recovery plan, which will outline its strategy and the phased easing of restrictions, prime minister muhyiddin yassin was quoted by bernama news agency as saying on sunday (june 13).
the plan, he said, will take into account current statistics and existing policies on containment measures, the economy and vaccination progress and it will be presented to the national security council within the next week.
"some of the key ministers involved have already sat down with me to present the draft.
basically good, but not yet refined.
"it is time we want to set an exit strategy or national recovery plan for us to get out of this problem, but this is a big challenge depending on the cooperation and support of all parties," he said, as quoted by bernama.
mr muhyiddin said the plan could help hospitals manage their capacity.
"we have to help the ministry of health manage (its) healthcare (capacity) to ensure that our healthcare system does not collapse .
.
.
there must be enough hospitals, bed facilities, ventilators and hospital staff," he said.
dr adham had said in june that malaysia would be able to inoculate 80 per cent of its population and reach herd immunity by december.
mr muhyiddin was speaking to reporters after visiting a mobile vaccine truck at a low cost housing project in kuala lumpur.
the mobile vaccination programme is a continuation of a pilot project that took off on june 7 at another low-cost housing estate in the capital city.
the elderly and people with disabilities are given priority in the programme, which was introduced in june with an aim to inoculate 80 per cent of residents in the federal territories by the end of august.
mr muhyiddin said the government will increase the number of mobile vaccine trucks in the federal territories.
separately, senior minister ismail sabri yaakob on sunday said the government could relax the current lockdown restrictions if daily covid-19 cases fall below 4,000 but it would subject to the health ministry advice.
"this does not mean the end of restrictions but perhaps reviewing the rules which can be relaxed a bit and so on.
this is because the impact will only be visible after 14 days because that is the incubation period of the virus," datuk seri ismail sabri was quoted by the star newspaper as saying.
"we pray after 14 days the cases go down; we can review the sop (standard operating procedure) which we think may be a little strict, but i cannot promise because it depends on the advice from the health ministry.
"he was speaking after visiting the army field hospital at sultanah aminah hospital in johor bahru.
he also acknowledged the existence of a national recovery plan, saying that it will be discussed at a special meeting in due course though herd immunity remains a priority.
malaysia reported 5,304 new infections on sunday with 64 new deaths, bringing the cumulative caseload to 657,508 with 3,908 total deaths, according to the health ministry.
selangor recorded the highest number of cases at 1,973, followed by sarawak (544) and kuala lumpur (462).
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                a healthcare worker prepares a dose of the astrazeneca coronavirus disease (covid-19) vaccine during the mass vaccination program for transportations workers at kampung rambutan bus station in jakarta, indonesia, on june 11, 2021.  reutersjakarta, june 13 (reuters/xinhua): indonesia reported on sunday a total 9, 868 covid-19 daily infections, the highest since feb.  22, the indonesian covid-19 task force said.
total infections as of sunday (june 13) are 1, 911, 358. the southeast asian country also reported 149 covid-19 fatalities, taking the total to 52, 879. an additional 4, 655 recovered patients were discharged from hospitals, bringing the total number of recoveries from the pandemic to 1, 745, 091 in the southeast asian country.
the virus has spread to all the country's 34 provinces.
specifically, in the past 24 hours, jakarta recorded 2, 769 new confirmed cases, central java 2, 579, west java 1, 242, yogyakarta 466 and east java 418. no new cases were detected in west sulawesi province.
indonesia has detected the highly infectious delta coronavirus variant in the recent spike in covid-19 cases in kudus district of central java province, the province's governor ganjar pranowo said on sunday.
the governor said that 86.
11 percent or 62 out of a total of 72 samples of recent covid-19 cases in kudus emanated from the delta variant first reported in india.
"the spread of this virus variant is very fast.
three weeks ago covid-19 in kudus affected only three sub-districts but today they are happening in 11 sub-districts," pranowo said.
reuters/xinhua
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                surging
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sunday (june 14) total
                                                                ,
                                                                                                highest
                                                                ,
                                                                                                since feb 22



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
carbis bay, england: leaders of the world's largest economies unveiled an infrastructure plan saturday (jun 12) for the developing world to compete with china's global initiatives, but they were searching for a consensus on how to forcefully call out beijing over human rights abuses.
citing china for its forced labour practices is part of president joe biden's campaign to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing.
but while they agreed to work toward competing against china, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed biden's position, while germany, italy and the european union showed more hesitancy during saturday's first session of the group of seven summit, according to two senior biden administration officials.
the officials who briefed reporters were not authorised to publicly discuss the private meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.
the communique that summarises the meeting's commitments was being written and the contents would not be clear until it was released when the summit ended sunday.
white house officials said late saturday that they believed that china, in some form, could be called out for "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses".
in his first summit as president, biden made a point of carving out one-on-one-time with various leaders, bouncing from french president emmanuel macron to german chancellor angela merkel to italian prime minister mario draghi as well as japan's yoshihide suga and australia's scott morrison, a day after meeting with british prime minister boris johnson as if to personally try to ward off memories of the chaos that his predecessor would often bring to these gatherings.
macron told biden that collaboration was needed on a range of issues and told the american president that "it's great to have a us president part of the club and very willing to cooperate".
relations between the allies had become strained during the four years of donald trump's presidency and his "america first" foreign policy.
merkel, for her part, downplayed differences on china and the nord stream 2 pipeline which would transport natural gas from russia to germany, bypassing ukraine.
"the atmosphere is very cooperative, it is characterised by mutual interest," merkel said.
"there are very good, constructive and very vivid discussions in the sense that one wants to work together.
"white house officials have said biden wants the leaders of the g7 nations — the us, britain, canada, france, germany, japan and italy — to speak in a single voice against forced labour practices targeting china's uyghur muslims and other ethnic minorities.
biden hopes the denunciation will be part of a joint statement to be released sunday when the summit ends, but some european allies are reluctant to split so forcefully with beijing.
china had become one of the more compelling sublots of the wealthy nations' summit, their first since 2019.  last year's gathering was cancelled because of covid-19, and recovery from the pandemic is dominating this year's discussions, with leaders expected to commit to sharing at least 1 billion vaccine shots with struggling countries.
the allies also took the first steps in presenting an infrastructure proposal called "build back better for the world", a name echoing biden's campaign slogan.
the plan calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labour practices.
it's designed to compete with china's trillion-dollar "belt and road initiative" which has launched a network of projects and maritime lanes that snake around large portions of the world, primarily asia and africa.
critics say china's projects often create massive debt and expose nations to undue influence by beijing.
britain also wants the world's democracies to become less reliant on the asian economic giant.
the uk government said saturday's discussions would tackle "how we can shape the global system to deliver for our people in support of our values", including by diversifying supply chains that currently heavily depend on china.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with china as the defining competition for the 21st century.
but there are some signs that europe is willing to impose greater scrutiny.
before biden took office in january, the european commission announced it had come to terms with beijing on a deal meant to provide europe and china with greater access to each other's markets.
the biden administration had hoped to have consultations on the pact.
but the deal has been put on hold, and the european union in march announcedsanctions targeting four chinese officialsinvolved with human rights abuses in xinjiang.
beijing responded with penalties on several members of the european parliament and other europeans critical of the chinese communist party.
biden administration officials see an opportunity to take concrete action to speak out against china's reliance on forced labour as an "affront to human dignity".
while calling out china in the g7 communique would not create any immediate penalties for beijing, one senior administration official said the action would send a message that the leaders were serious about defending human rights and working together to eradicate the use of forced labour.
an estimated 1 million people or more — most of them uyghurs — have been confined in reeducation camps in china's western xinjiang region in recent years, according to researchers.
chinese authorities have been accused of imposing forced labor, systematic forced birth control, torture and separating children from incarcerated parents.
beijing rejects allegations that it is committing crimes.
johnson, the summit host, also welcomed the leaders from "guest nations" south korea, australia and south africa, as well as the head of the united nations, to the summit to "intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations".
the leaders planned to attend a barbecue saturday night, complete with toasted marshmallows, hot buttered rum and a performance by a sea shanty troupe.
india was also invited but its delegation is not attending in person because of the severe coronavirus outbreak in the country.
biden ends the trip wednesday by meeting in geneva with russia's vladimir putin.
the white house announced saturday that they will not hold a joint news conference afterward, which removes the opportunity for comparisons to the availability that followed trump and putin's 2018 helsinki summit, in which trump sided with moscow over his own intelligence agencies.
only biden will address the news media after the meeting.
putin, in an interview with nbc news, said the us-russia relationship had "deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years".
he added that while trump was a "talented" and "colourful" person, biden was a "career man" in politics, which has "some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements" by the us president.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei • thailand is prioritising astrazeneca covid-19 vaccines produced in the country for itself due to the severity of the pandemic there, which has delayed deliveries to taiwan, president tsai ing-wen said.
taiwan is dealing with a spike in domestic infections and only 3 per cent of its 23.
5 million people have received at least one shot of vaccination so far, with millions of doses on order that have yet to arrive.
"the problem is that the goods that were supposed to have arrived in june have not," ms tsai told a taiwanese radio station yesterday.
taiwan has ordered 10 million doses from astrazeneca, which is mainly producing the shots in thailand, she said.
"now thailand's epidemic situation is serious and they are giving priority for vaccines to be used in thailand," ms tsai added.
thailand has reported 189,828 infections, with more than 80 per cent of the new cases and fatalities coming since april.
neither astrazeneca nor thai government officials immediately responded to requests for comment.
taiwan's health minister chen shih-chung told lawmakers on tuesday that orders from astrazeneca would be delayed by a month due to production problems at the firm's thai plant.
taiwan received 1.
24 million astrazeneca doses donated by japan last week, and the united states has pledged 750,000 shots, but no details have been provided on that.
ms tsai said the government has been having "emergency" talks with the us and japan to see what other vaccines they may be able to give.
the president has come under pressure to do more to speed up vaccine deliveries, and yesterday expressed apologies for the infections and deaths.
mr chen told parliament that government-run research centre academia sinica has made good progress on mrna technology and contacted moderna about working with it on vaccines.
moderna did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
taiwan has received just 150,000 moderna doses of more than five million on order.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
jun 13, 2021 10:36 pm phtan abu sayyaf subleader and three of his alleged followers were killed during a joint military and police raid in barangay alat in jolo, sulu, on sunday, june 13. the armed forces of the philippines' western mindanao command identified the group's slain leader as injam yadah, a man notorious for beheadings and kidnappings in mindanao.
he was also linked to cross-border kidnappings in sabah, according to a report from malaysian newspaper the star.
major general william gonzales, commander of joint task force sulu, said yadah had a reputation for being "extremely violent," and beheaded his captives, who included soldiers.
lieutenant colonel wilfredo borgonia, commander of the philippine army's 35th infantry battalion, also said yadah's kidnap victims included foreigners and the estranged wife and daughter of a prominent politician in 2018. aside from yadah, those killed included al-al sawadjaan, the brother of abu sayyaf bomb maker mundi sawadjaan, who was named by the military as the mastermind behind the january 2019 jolo cathedral bombing and the august 2020 twin suicide blasts in jolo.
mundi was not with the group during the raid.
a certain rauf and a still unidentified man were also killed.
soldiers and police were trying to serve an arrest warrant against yadah, his wife jenalyn habibi jairi – known as jhing – and the others at around 1:30 am on sunday, according to a report from the police regional office in the bangsamoro autonomous region in muslim mindanao.
but the group fired at the soldiers and police, prompting the troops to shoot back, said philippine national police chief general guillermo eleazar in a statement.
the troops arrested yadah's wife jhing and took their three children into custody.
gonzales said the troops also seized an m653 carbine rifle, a caliber .
45 pistol, bomb-making materials, ammunition, detonating cords, and a blasting cap.
– rappler.
com
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 01:09 pm myt

'adolescents and younger men' should avoid strenuous physical activity for a week after their second dose as a precaution.
— today file pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
singapore, june 13 — the expert committee for covid-19 vaccination has advised "adolescents and younger men" to avoid strenuous physical activity for a week after their second dose as a precaution against a "small risk" of heart inflammation.
they should also seek medical attention promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
despite this, the benefits of getting vaccinated still outweigh the risk, the committee under the ministry of health (moh) stressed in a news release late friday (june 11) night.
in singapore, as of june 7, the health sciences authority (hsa) has reported four men aged 18 to 30 having myocarditis or pericarditis after they received their second jab of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines.
another two cases involved one man and one woman who are both above 40 years old, hsa added in a separate news release late friday night.
these are inflammatory conditions affecting the heart muscles (myocarditis) and the outer lining of the heart (pericarditis).
"most of the cases were reported to have occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine," hsa said, adding that all the people affected have recovered or have been discharged well from hospital.
more studies and investigations are ongoing on such cases, the expert committee said.
its recommendation was made after an assessment of international reports showing that a higher-than-expected number of young men have experienced heart inflammation after their second dose of the vaccines that use messenger ribonucleic acid (mrna) technology.
this has been observed overseas in israel and the united states in adolescents and young men under 25, the committee noted.
"the risk of this has been estimated to be 1.
6 cases per 100,000 doses for mrna vaccines in the us, which is comparable to the risk of anaphylaxis (severe allergic reactions) observed in singapore," it said.
hsa said that the two cases in singapore of those above 40 years of age "is within the baseline incidence rate", while the four involving the men aged 18 to 30 "is at the upper end of the expected range for this age group, based on background incidence rates".
both the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines approved for the national vaccination programme use mrna technology.
there is no observed incremental risk of the conditions after the first dose of the vaccines, the committee said.
it also said that most cases of myocarditis and pericarditis are mild.
patients recover without the need for significant intervention and do not suffer any long-term effects, it added, "although very rarely, severe cases may result in damage to the heart muscles".
these occur more often in men compared to women and are separate and distinct conditions from heart attacks, which are caused when blood flow to the heart is blocked.
hsa said that globally, regulatory authorities, including those in israel and the us, continue to recommend vaccination for those aged 16 to 30 years to protect them from covid-19.
the 14-member expert committee on covid-19 vaccines is chaired by associate professor benjamin ong, who is the senior adviser to the director of medical services at moh and the senior vice-president of health education and resources at the national university of singapore.
the committee includes other experts in infectious diseases, immunology and other relevant fields.
— todayloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
tokyo:     global shares held firm near record highs on monday while u. s.  bond yields flirted with three-month lows as investors expect the federal reserve to stick to its dovish mantra later this week.
japan's nikkei rose 0.
35per cent while msci's broadest index of asia-pacific shares outside japan was down 0.
1per cent.
activity was limited with the region's largest markets china, hong kong and australia closed for a holiday.
globally, equity markets were basking in the prospects of a broadening economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and anticipation of continuity in dovish monetary policy from the u. s.  federal reserve.
the msci all-country world equity index, the u. s.  s&p 500 and the pan-regional stoxx europe 600 index all closed at record highs on friday.
the rally came even as u. s.  inflation data on thursday exceeded market expectations.
"one big factor is that the fed has been saying inflation will be transitory and that it will maintain loose monetary policy," said norihiro fujito, chief investment strategist at mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities.
"but another factor to consider is that markets are simply awash with cash.
"ample funds are finding their way to bonds, where the yield on 10-year u. s.  treasuries stood at 1.
465per cent ahead of the fed's policy meeting this week, having fallen to a three-month low of 1.
428per cent on friday.
"it is becoming painful for bond bears and i bet the 10-year yield will fall to 1.
25per cent or even 1per cent," said akira takei, fund manager at asset management one, noting that u. s.  economic recovery is likely to slow in coming months.
"the u. s.  employment rate was 61per cent before the pandemic.
it has recovered to 58per cent but i expect its recovery to slow.
after the great financial crisis (of 2008), it has never recovered to its pre-crisis levels.
"speculators are also building up long positions in u. s.  debt, with their net long positions in u. s.  bond futures hitting the highest level since october 2017, u. s.  financial watchdog data showed.
many investors expect the fed to repeat its dovish view at its two-day meeting from tuesday.
while some fed board members have said the bank should start discussing tapering its bond buying, most investors think a majority of policymakers still prefer to wait a bit more.
"there will probably be no surprise from the fed this week," said mitsubishi ufj's fujito.
"but in the longer term, there's clear risk of the fed's stimulus becoming excessive.
there is little justification for buying mortgage bonds when housing markets are becoming so hot.
"in the currency market, the euro has lost steam after the european central bank last week showed no willingness to reduce its stimulus either.
the euro traded at us$1.
2111, having fallen to a one-month low of us$1.
2093 on friday.
the yen stood little changed at 109.
70 yen.
the british pound changed hands at us$1.
4113, near the lower end of its trading range over the past month, ahead of british prime minister boris johnson's announcement on monday on whether its planned lifting of coronavirus restrictions can go ahead as scheduled on june 21. hopes of ending the curbs hung in the balance as data showed a further rise in cases of the rapidly spreading delta variant, which was identified first in india.
british tabloid the sun on friday reported johnson is set to delay lockdown lifting to july 19. meantime, oil prices held near multi-year highs on an improved outlook for worldwide fuel demand.
brent crude futures inched up 0.
2per cent to us$72.
85 per barrel, near their highest levels since may 2019. u. s.  west texas intermediate (wti) crude futures added 0.
2per cent to us$71.
05 per barrel, near their highest since october 2018.
(reporting by hideyuki sano; editing by kenneth maxwell)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
manila: philippine troops killed four abu sayyaf militants in a gun battle on sunday (jun 13) in the country's south, including a commander blamed for beheadings and a suspected would-be suicide bomber, military officials said.
army troops backed by police were to serve a warrant for the arrest of injam yadah at his home after midnight in alat village in jolo town in sulu province, when he and his men opened fire.
that sparked the gun battle that killed the militants, said regional military commander lieutenant general corleto vinluan jr. yadah had been accused by the military of involvement in the kidnappings for ransom of filipinos and foreigners, including eight indonesian fishermen who were abducted at sea off malaysia in early 2020 and brought to the southern philippines.
three of the indonesians were freed, one was shot and killed while attempting to escape and four were rescued by filipino troops in march.
"he had a reputation for being extremely violent, beheading captured innocent civilians and security forces alike," a military commander, major general william gonzales, said of yadah.
yadah had also been linked to the 2015 kidnappings of four people, including two canadian tourists.
the canadians were separately beheaded by their abu sayyaf captors, including mujir yadah, a brother of injam, after a deadline for ransom payment lapsed, a military officer said.
another abu sayyaf militant killed in sunday's firefight was al sawadjaan, a bomb-maker and would-be suicide bomber, according to lieutenant colonel wilfredo borgonia, an army infantry battalion commander.
troops seized a rifle, a pistol, bomb parts and 15 cellphones.
they also took into custody yadah's wife and three children, the military said in a statement, adding the children were "rescued".
sawadjaan was a younger brother of abu sayyaf commander mundi sawadjaan, the main suspect in a number of deadly suicide attacks in recent years in sulu, a predominantly muslim province where the militants have been the target of years-long military offensives.
the sawadjaans belonged to an abu sayyaf faction that has pledged allegiance to the islamic state group.
this year, at least 18 abu sayyaf militants have been killed, 17 captured while 86 others have surrendered in sulu, the military said.
the us and the philippines have separately blacklisted the abu sayyaf as a terrorist organisation for deadly bombings, ransom kidnappings and beheadings.
the brutal group has been considerably weakened by battle setbacks, surrenders and factionalism but remains a national security threat.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
421actress lee sun bin has left a supportive comment on lee kwang soo's instagram.
on june 13 kst, sbs aired the last episode of 'running man' to feature lee kwang soo as one of the permanent cast members.
as seen previously, lee kwang soo took to instagram and left a heartfelt message to all his supporters through the years.
under the post, his girlfriend lee sun bin left a series of emojis, applauding and praying for lee kwang soo.
in addition to lee sun bin, other celebrities including code kunst, lim joo hwan, and former sistar member bora left supportive comments and reactions.
code kunst wrote: "i love you hyung", and bora shared: "thank you for giving me the unforgettable joy of running together as one team!!
you're the best!!
"'running man' is a special program for both lee kwang soo and lee sun bin, as the two have acknowledged their love for one another in an episode back in 2016.  in related news, kim jong kook and other cast members shed tears as they exchanged their final words of farewell on today's episode.
a post shared by 이광수 (@masijacoke850714) log in to comment3the "acknowledge their love for each other in 2016 on the program" was just a funny thing.
they werent dating back then lol2 more replies0this episode was a tough one to get through.
goodbye running man's lee kwangsoo.
his character on the show was one of a kind.
it wasn't just about what he did, but how he did it as well.
pure genius.
plus, he was truly blessed by the variety gods.
he had great chemistry with the other rm members, especially the original cast that he spent 3,991 days with.
oh!
i'm going to miss him.
show all comments
 send
houston — houston police are investigating after a new rolls-royce was found shot up and left with doors wide open on the side of the east freeway sunday morning.
this strange scene unfolded at about 2:15 a. m.  on the westbound lanes of the freeway near san jacinto.
officers were the ones who found the high-end car parked along the side of the freeway, according to investigators.
when the officers approached the car, they saw it had front-end damage.
they also found multiple bullet holes along the side of it.
all of the doors of the rolls-royce were also left open, but no one was inside.
the car was towed off the freeway and that's when investigators said they found blood inside the car, and they also found shell casings, indicating that shots were fired from the vehicle and that it may have been involved in some sort of shootout.
moments later, investigators were notified that two people who may have been inside the rolls-royce showed up to the hospital with injuries from cut glass and the airbags exploding.
police said these two people are not being cooperative with the investigation so, at this time, they have no idea what actually led to this incident and if there is anyone else involved.
the houston police department is asking anyone who may have any information on this scene, to please call the major assaults division or crime stoppers at 713-222-8477.  also popular on khou.
comnotifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.
by sarah rainsfordbbc news, moscowthe geneva summit between vladimir putin and joe biden on 16 june will not be a friendly encounter.
for a start, russia recently included the us on its official list of "unfriendly states".
both sides describe relations as at rock bottom and neither currently has an ambassador in-country; senior russian officials are under american sanctions for everything from annexing ukraine's crimea to alleged election meddling, and two former us marines are now in russian prisons one serving 16 years accused of espionage.
on top of all that, there's the moment in march when joe biden agreed with an interviewer that vladimir putin was "a killer".
and yet, the two men are set to meet as presidents for the first time, and some in russia see that as an achievement in itself.
"the summit is important in terms of symbolism; it puts russia in the same league as the us, and for putin symbolism is not unimportant," says andrei kortunov, director of the riac think-tank in moscow.
the meeting comes early in mr biden's time in the white house, on his first foreign trip and at his request all bonus points for the kremlin.
it's also a full summit not a brief encounter appended to some other event.
and despite a packed agenda, including meetings at nato headquarters in brussels on monday, there's particular interest in joe biden's final stop on his european trip, his one-on-one on wednesday with vladimir putin.
"putin definitely wants to be equal to the us president.
he wants to be respected on his terms," political analyst lilia shevtsova agrees.
"putin wants to demonstrate macho muscle and to be a member of the club.
"the choice of geneva as a setting harks back to a cold war encounter in 1985: the first summit between ronald reagan and mikhail gorbachev.
but there's little prospect that this week's event will match that either for personal rapport or political thaw.
today's white house says its aim is a "stable" and "predictable" relationship with russia.
but keeping people guessing and wary has been vladimir putin's way ever since his "little green men" entered crimea in 2014 and the peninsula was annexed from ukraine.
it was the start of this slide in russia-us relations.
"a more feasible goal would be to test where each other's 'red lines' lie," ms shevtsova suggests, as well as "an understanding that dialogue is the way back from the abyss".
'if they're not talking, then russia will become more unpredictable," she argues.
this weekend, vladimir putin told state tv there were "issues where we can work together" with the us, starting with new nuclear arms control talks, discussing regional conflicts including syria and libya, and climate change.
"if we can create mechanisms for working on those issues, then i think we can say the summit was not in vain," mr putin argued.
some in russia suggest a truce in the "diplomatic wars" may also be possible: the us has expelled dozens of russian diplomats and shut down two compounds in recent years; now us missions in russia are to be barred from employing locals, meaning dramatic cuts in services including visas.
moscow might allow its ambassador back to washington as a minimum move.
the us will also raise the fate of its prisoners in russia, including paul whelan who was arrested in 2018 and convicted of espionage, which he has always denied.
russia recently renewed its push for a prisoner-swap but its terms have so far been impossible for the us to meet, and a unilateral gesture of generosity by mr putin seems unlikely.
russia's president has gone out of his way lately to underline his view of the west as hostile.
at this month's economic forum in st petersburg, he claimed again that the us wants to "contain" russia's development.
a few days earlier, he had threatened to "knock out the teeth" of any foreign aggressor who wants to "bite" russia, insisting that the world needs to wake-up to the country's restored status and strength.
"clearly he believes the us is an adversary that doesn't wish russia well, and i don't think this vision will change," mr kortunov says.
even so, he argues that russia may be looking to lower the temperature a notch or two.
"as a rational politician, putin would like to reduce the costs and risks associated with this adversarial relationship," mr kortunov believes.
that includes economic sanctions: the latest round restricted the government's capacity to raise funds and new steps could be further reaching, adding more strain to the economy in a key election year.
"the russian public has no appetite for foreign policy 'victories' now as a substitute for addressing burning social and economic problems at home," mr kortunov says.
"whatever putin might want, i don't think he can gain anything [domestically] by escalating.
"what vladimir putin doesn't want, but is braced for, is a lecture on human rights including the case of alexei navalny, russia's opposition politician first poisoned and now in prison.
navalny's political offices and anti-corruption organisation have just been banned as "extremist" by a moscow court, a ruling that could easily have been delayed until after the summit.
instead, the timing seems meant to send a message: that vladimir putin will continue to crush dissent and that is none of america's business.
"biden will do his song his prelude about navalny and human rights; then putin will do his song that the us is the same," ms shevtsova predicts, dryly.
"but the fact this meeting is taking place means that after the human rights 'hors d'oeuvre', they'll move on to the main dish.
and that is: let's do something to lower the tension.
"awkward conversation looms for biden and putinputin: biden will be less impulsive than trumpisrael's new pm bennett vows to unite nationhis pledge comes as his government is voted in, ending benjamin netanyahu's 12-year hold on power.
lockdown easing in england to be delayedg7 leaders promise one billion vaccine doseswhat putin really wants from bidenhow chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race'we make it or we die' video'we make it or we die'netanyahu: a shrewd leader who reshaped israeltech firms use remote monitoring to help honey beeswhat happened when the soviets tried to dig to the centre of the earth?the rebels working with islamic state in central africaformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star.
videoformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star'i lost my father and pregnant wife to covid'football phrases15 sayings from around the worldlockdown easing in england to be delayed1israel's new pm bennett vows to unite nation2queen meets joe biden at windsor castle3what putin really wants from biden4whatsapp launches privacy campaign after backlash5how chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race6china to g7: small groups do not rule the world7swiss voters reject key climate change measures8thousands join protests against catalan pardons9biden gifts johnson custom-made bike at g7 summit10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from today, which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening today will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post yesterday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
cleaners from hong ye group were also linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test — both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases — an 82-year-old singaporean woman — was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for republication.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
as shifting consumer preferences continue to boost the demand for food deliveries, enterprise singapore (esg) is extending its subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using such services by an additional month.
"this will support f&b businesses as we gradually move back to phase three (heightened alert), and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run," said esg in a statement yesterday.
the food delivery booster package, which subsidises part of f&b businesses' food delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. the package, which started on may 16, was initially meant to run till tomorrow by helping f&b businesses affected by tightened restrictions under phase two.
along with the extension, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13.  the new additions are food delivery platform bungkus, and third-party logistics companies chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
the initial pool of six are food delivery platforms deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood, and third-party logistics companies lalamove, zeek logistics and pickupp.
under the extension, esg will continue to provide funding for 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by food delivery platforms, as well as 20 per cent of delivery costs for those who use third-party logistics partners.
from today, some covid-19 restrictions will also be loosened, with social gatherings of up to five persons allowed.
however, dining in at eateries will be allowed only from next monday, provided that the pandemic situation remains under control.
noting that dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for the f&b sector, minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling said the extension of the booster package "seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support, even after dine-in services resume on june 21".
since being re-introduced last month, the booster package has benefited more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said ms low.
however, she also highlighted that "food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal".
preliminary estimates by esg show that the daily average number of online food deliveries supported by the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher under phase two (heightened alert) than during the circuit breaker last year.
according to esg, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year, to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
with the uncertainty of the pandemic, esg said the booster package is also meant to encourage businesses to continue with food delivery sales as part of their long-term strategy, so that they can be more resilient amid future business disruptions.
asian gastropub slake managed to diversify its revenue streams after using an esg grant to develop an online storefront, which enabled it to tap esg's booster package.
after a marketing campaign boosted its sales and social media presence, slake is now looking into converting its siglap kitchen into a cloud kitchen and setting up a second one later this year.
ms low said: "consumers are increasingly savvy in searching online for the best food and deals to be sent to their doorsteps.
"we hope the extended food delivery booster package will place our f&b establishments on a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
world leaders issue joint statement promising action on vaccines, china and global corporate taxlast modified on sun 13 jun 2021 18.
54 edtas the g7 finishes in cornwall, here are some of the issues they pledged to act on in their carbis bay declaration.
the g7 pledged over the next 12 months to secure a further 1bn vaccine doses either through donating surplus supplies or providing further finance to covax, the un-backed scheme charged with distributing vaccines to low- and middle-income countries.
the main new pledges came from the us, uk and germany.
the communique also set out plans to reduce roadblocks to production in africa and on the controversial issue of enforced temporary waivers of patents said they will support manufacturing in low income countries.
they said they would engage constructively on the issue of intellectual property waivers in discussions at the world trade organization.
the united kingdom's 100m-dose pledge is "entirely new", according to a spokesperson.
the united states has already donated $2bn (£1.
4bn) to covax, according to a white house official.
in february, the biden administration pledged $2bn more.
but that second $2bn will now fund the purchase of the pfizer doses, manufactured in the us, along with $1.
5bn in additional funds, according to the official.
the communique did not set out a detailed country-by-country commitment or a timetable to act.
many of the commitments were not new.
but the eu's 100m-dose commitment was promised during a summit in may, and the us commitment partially replaces earlier promises to fund covax directly.
the issue of intellectual property waivers was fudged.
the g7 called on china to "respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration and the basic law".
the g7 underscored "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, and encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues".
they also called for a "timely, transparent, expert-led and science-based" investigation into the causes of covid, convened by the world health organization and including china.
the g7 also vowed to cooperate with china on issues such as the climate.
in a separate statement the white house said: "the us and our g7 partners remain deeply concerned by the use of all forms of forced labor in global supply chains, including state-sponsored forced labor of vulnerable groups and minorities and supply chains of the agricultural, solar, and garment sectors – the main supply chains of concern in xinjiang.
"the sections on china, a change on what the grouping would have said a few years back, do not contain any commitments beyond cooperation to remove forced labour from supply chains.
as well as discussing measures to tackle covid, g7 leaders said they would "act now to strengthen the global health and health security system to be better prepared for future pandemics".
they pledged to reinforce global surveillance for potentially dangerous diseases.
as well as the joint call for an investigation into the causes of covid, joe biden suggested at his press conference it was time to look again at the theory that it may have originated in a lab.
at his press conference, boris johnson suggested the new health surveillance system could involve creating a new global watchdog with powers to carry out inspections to monitor outbreaks, along the lines of existing systems for controlling chemical weapons.
the leaders agreed that in the event of a future outbreak, g7 nations would act rapidly, with the aim of making vaccines, tests and treatments available within 100 days.
the plans were based on recommendations from the uk's chief scientific adviser, patrick vallance, and melinda french gates, who are part of a pandemic preparedness partnership advising the g7 nations.
as well as speeding up the creation of drugs and treatments, the agreement is aimed at preventing the beggar-my-neighbour policies during the early days of the pandemic, when governments were competing to procure personal protective equipment, driving up prices.
the leaders committed to a "one health" approach in future.
there was progress towards a global deal that will put a 15% floor under the tax paid by the world's largest corporations, and in particular tech firms such as amazon, google and facebook.
biden wanted a 21% minimum tax rate, but was persuaded that when countries such as ireland and cyprus would need to bring up their tax rates from 12.
5%, a 15% rate was more likely to gain widespread agreement.
critics said the g7 had let multinationals off the hook with a rate that failed to prevent tax havens thriving, and could force high-tax countries into a race down to the 15% level.
leaders of the richest seven nations agreed to repudiate the policies of austerity and retrenchment that were implemented in the years after the 2008 banking crash and, in the words of johnson, build back better and in a way that makes society more equal and protects the environment.
there was strong recognition that economies would benefit from stimulus programmes that were larger and longer lasting than seen in a decade.
only the prime minister of italy, mario draghi, a former central bank governor, cautioned that to calm financial markets leaders should signal that they would one day seek to reduce currently high levels of borrowing.
the g7 also agreed to increase the special drawing rights (sdrs) of low-income countries by $100bn.
sdrs are issued by the international monetary fund (imf) to boost the reserves and reduce the borrowing costs of vulnerable countries, allowing them to increase spending on health systems and cover pandemic costs.
the south african president, cyril ramaphosa, said this fell short of the $162bn he had asked the g7 to agree while anti-poverty groups said the g7 had failed to spell out the terms of the sdrs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all visitors who went to the 115 bukit merah view market and food centre between may 25 and june 12 will be offered free covid-19 tests, after four more cases were linked to form a new cluster there.
the ministry of health (moh) on sunday (june 13) said all staff and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 have been quarantined, and will be swabbed during quarantine.
in addition, all staff and tenants who had been working in 116 bukit merah view from may 25 will be tested for covid-19 as well, "to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission", said moh.
members of the public who visited shops at 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 will also be offered free covid-19 testing.
the 115 bukit merah view market and food centre cluster now has six cases, after four cases were linked to it on sunday.
moh said: "our epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
"the ministry urged all visitors to 115 and 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and june 12 to monitor their health closely, and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for 14 days from their date of visit.
all 182 stalls in the market and hawker centre have been closed from sunday till tuesday for cleaning, after covid-19 cases were detected there.
the four new cases from the market comprise a 50-year-old man who is a conservancy worker, a 72-year-old man who works at a sundry shop, a 67-year-old woman who works as a food stall vendor, and a 65-year-old male food stall vendor.
all four are close contacts of a 74-year-old man who was fully vaccinated and works at a sundry store in the market.
only the 72-year-old man developed symptoms of covid-19 – he came down with a runny nose on sunday.
the remaining three were asymptomatic.
they were among a total of 10 covid-19 cases in the community reported on sunday.
two are currently unlinked, while the remaining eight covid-19 cases in the community are linked to earlier cases.
five of the linked cases had been quarantined earlier, while the remaining three were detected through surveillance.
a 27-year-old engineer from india who tested positive for covid-19 as part of routine testing was one of the two unlinked cases on sunday.
the engineer, who works for local firm ecoxplore, had been tested for the disease as part of rostered routine testing (rrt) on june 10, and subsequently developed a fever the same day.
moh said that his pooled rrt test result came back positive for the disease on june 11.  an individual test was then administered, which came back positive for infection on june 12.  his serology test result is negative, meaning he did not have a past infection.
the second unlinked case from sunday is a 23-year-old man from india who works as a nursing aide at all saints home in hougang.
he is asymptomatic, and was detected when he was tested for the coronavirus on june 11 as part of the nursing home's surveillance testing for staff.
his pooled test result came back positive for covid-19 that day, and he was administered an individual test on june 11 as well.
the result for this individual test result came back negative for the disease.
but another test on june 12 came back positive for covid-19 infection, said moh, adding: "his ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result is positive. "
the ministry said he is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus from a past infection which are no longer transmissible and infective to others.
the man received his first dose of the covid-19 vaccine on march 10, and the second dose on march 31. of the eight linked cases, one quarantined case was linked to a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at ion orchard mall.
two of the three cases detected through surveillance are household contacts of the ecoxplore engineer.
the other case is linked to a 68-year-old male singaporean who works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia.
the gardener was confirmed to have covid-19 on june 12.  there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of these cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from workers' dormitories were reported.
singapore's total number of covid-19 cases is now at 62,276. read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
denmark midfielder christian eriksen suffered cardiac arrest during a euro 2020 match on saturday, morten boesen, denmark's team doctor, confirmed on sunday.
"he was gone, and we did cardiac resuscitation," boesen said at a news conference.
eriksen is in stable condition at a copenhagen hospital after collapsing late in the first half of denmark's tournament opener against finland.
paramedics and doctors, including boesen, rushed onto the field to treat him.
they administered cpr and used a defibrillator, or aed.
"we got him back after one defib, so that's quite fast," boesen said.
"how close were we [to losing eriksen]?
i don't know," he said.
eriksen was transported to a nearby hospital on a stretcher.
his agent and other officials confirmed saturday night and sunday morning that he was breathing, awake and alert.
he communicated with teammates and coaches less than two hours after being wheeled off the field, and again sunday morning, according to denmark's soccer federation.
denmark head coach kasper hjulmand said eriksen "was concerned about us and, of course, his family.
he said, 'i don't remember much' and 'i'm more concerned about you guys, how are you doing?
'"as of sunday afternoon, eriksen remains in the hospital undergoing testing.
as for the cause of the cardiac arrest, boesen, the team doctor, said: "i'm not a cardiologist, so the details i will leave to the experts at the hospital.
"denmark and finland resumed the match less than two hours after eriksen collapsed.
uefa, the european soccer governing body, said the decision to restart the game had been made by players.
hjulmand, however, said uefa had given his team two options: to complete the game saturday night or sunday afternoon.
"the players couldn't imagine not being able to sleep tonight and then having to get on the bus and come in again tomorrow," hjulmand, the danish coach, said saturday night.
"honestly, it was best to get it over with.
"but at a sunday news conference, he reconsidered.
"looking back, it was the wrong thing to make the decision between the two scenarios to the players in this case," hjulmand said.
"players were in a shock condition – players who didn't really know yet if they had lost their best friend.
and they have to decide between these two things.
"i have a sense that we shouldn't have played.
i know it's difficult.
it's just a feeling i have.
maybe we should have just gone on to the bus and gone home and let's see what the next days would have brought.
"some 20 minutes after the match restarted, finland scored – with its only shot in its first-ever game at a major international tournament – and held on for a 1-0 upset.
denmark's next match, against group b favorite belgium, is scheduled for thursday at 6 p. m.  (noon et) in copenhagen.
in a statement sunday morning, the danish soccer federation said that players and staff were receiving "crisis assistance" and "will continue to be there for each other after yesterday's incident.
"hjulmand, at his news conference, said: "we will try tomorrow to establish normality as much as is possible.
players have different kinds of shocks and traumas and emotions.
"we will try to use the next couple of days as good as possible.
i will try to get a feeling of the players.
maybe for some, the time is too short to be able to play football again.
"more from yahoo sports:denmark's eriksen given cpr after collapsing at euro 2020unseeded krejcikova wins first grand slam title at french open wetzel: michigan legend bo schembechler nothing but a fraudhaynes: nuggets have been all talk falling into 3-0 hole vs.  sunsit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
the new local case is a primary close contact of another coronavirus case and has been self-isolating first published on sat 12 jun 2021 18.
42 edtmelbourne is on track for a further easing of restrictions later in the week after recording one new locally acquired covid case on sunday.
the health department on sunday confirmed the new case is a close contact of an already infected person and has been quarantining throughout their infectious period.
the case is a close contact of a case linked to the arcare mainstone aged care outbreak, however they are not a resident.
some 17,102 victorians were tested in the 24 hours to sunday morning, while 14,390 received a covid-19 vaccine dose at state-run hubs.
on sunday morning, acting premier james merlino said "it is a good thing" that the new case was "already in quarantine", but stressed "we are not over this (outbreak) yet".
merlino was also pressed about a further easing of covid restrictions, but provided no specific details claiming he didn't want to give "a false indication" ahead of public health advice.
"i've got no announcements today.
i know that people are very keen on the answer, and we want to get crowds back to, whether it is afl or netball basketball or whatever sport, and theatre production, we want to get crowds and attendances back to these events and back to where we were just a few short weeks ago," he said.
"my expectation is by later in the week, we will be in a position to announce further easing of restrictions for regional victoria and further easing for metropolitan melbourne," merlino said.
at a press conference later on sunday, victoria's health minister, martin foley, said australia was "nowhere near" ready to discuss reopening its international border.
"other countries are already having that conversation but those countries are at 50, 60, 70% vaccination rates.
we are just over three per cent fully-vaccinated," he said.
"what we need to do is have our focus on firstly keeping the virus at bay through dedicated risk-based quarantine facilities and keeping on top of outbreaks.
"overnight, scott morrison reaffirmed australia's suppression strategy to contain covid-19.
speaking on the sidelines of the g7 summit in the united kingdom, where he is an observer, morrison faced questions about when australians would be able to travel like he had done.
"in australia, we've been in a position where we have been able to suppress the virus and keep it out.
that sadly hasn't been able to be achieved here and across europe and the united states and so their experience has been very very different," the prime minister said.
"we'll continue to take an australian path on this which protects the lives and livelihoods and learn from the experiences of other countries," morrison said.
sunday's new case in victoria comes as authorities work to link saturday's local virus case to the kappa strain outbreak.
saturday's case, a man living in central melbourne with his young family, is a "mystery case" until a connection is found.
testing commander jeroen weimar said he was confident this link would be found but said he was more concerned about undiscovered cases because of low testing rates.
"there may well be more out there," he told reporters on saturday.
he asked victorians to make each other accountable for possible coronavirus symptoms and to encourage each other to get tested.
"call them out in the nicest possible way," he said.
there were just over 15,000 tests on friday and similar numbers the day before.
this is compared to 30,000 to 40,000 daily tests earlier in the outbreak.
there are now 74 active cases in the state, including returned travellers in hotel quarantine.
merlino also welcomed the news that premier daniel andrews will return to work on 28 june as he recovers from fracturing his spine and ribs.
if you can, you must.
let's beat this, victoria.
pic.
twitter.
com/gvzkce5jpsandrews, who tweeted a picture of himself getting vaccinated on sunday, said he had been given the all-clear by doctors to return to work.
"i will happily hand him back the keys, but it is great news," merlino said.
"i am sure i speak for all victorians in that we are really pleased, everyone, every victorian who has had a severe back injury knows how long and painful the recovery is.
"following a two-week lockdown that ended on friday, melburnians are allowed to travel up to 25km from home and meet outside in groups of up to 10.  masks are required indoors and outdoors and hospitality, retail and schools have reopened.
there are more than 3,000 primary close contacts in quarantine as a result of community cases, as well as 122 exposure sites.
additional reporting by australian associated press.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
arsenal are plotting a move for real betis midfielder nabil fekir this summer, it has emerged.
the gunners are in the market for a new attacking midfielder in the current transfer window and will hope to strengthen ahead of the new premier league season.
get ready for england to bring it home in this year's euros by wearing england's official football kitmikel arteta missed out on the signing of norwich city's emi buendia to aston villa, who spent a club-record fee to secure the services of the argentina international.
there is still some debate as to whether or not martin odegaard could return to the emirates after a positive loan spell, though it is unclear how new real madrid boss carlo ancelotti views the situation of the norwegian.
a new candidate has now appeared as a possible purchase, with rumours circulating that fekir is being looked at by arsenal.
spanish publication as have reported that there is interest from the north london side, though the two sides are not close to agreeing a transfer fee.
just in: liverpool told to let arsenal sign bissouma and chase £70m man instead  arsenal are believed to have made an opening offer of £20m, which they must now be prepared to raise.
the french midfielder joined betis in 2019 after a number of successful years at lyon in ligue 1. fekir was famously on the verge of completing a move to liverpool in the summer of 2018, having completed a medical ahead of his proposed switch.
but the deal bizarrely fell apart at the last minute, prompting confusion from liverpool supporters who thought the 27-year-old was on his way to anfield.
don't missleno facing arsenal axe as arteta plans huge transfer overhaularsenal transfer plan emerges as edu wants new deal for gunners duo arsenal facing two problems with tyler adams transfer  it was reported that the transfer was called off due to concerns about fekir's knee, though he later addressed those claims in an interview with l'equipe in 2019.
"lots of lies were told and they affected me," he said.
"especially those told about my family.
it hurt them and me.
especially when you know that's what being told is false.
"what was said is not the truth.
my knee is good, i had a quick medical check at clairefontaine, my knee wasn't even mentioned.
if my knee had been in such a bad state, would [jean-michel] aulas have made [an offer to keep me].
"but the worst thing is the idea that people could suggest that it's because of my family that the transfer didn't happen.
it's a lie.
but you have to live with it.
"you want the truth?
even i don't know, i promise you!
added fekir.
"i did my medical and then [liverpool] decided not to sign me.
at some point they wanted to have me believe it was because of my knee but an excuse needed to be found.
"the medical tests that i did at clairefontaine were very clear, my knee is perfectly fine and i feel fine.
there are no issues at all with my knee. "
see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore seven men aged between 15 and 29 were arrested on saturday (june 12) for rioting armed with a deadly weapon.
five will be charged in court on monday.
they were involved in a fight last friday night where three young people were attacked in jalan bukit merah.
one of the men is suspected to have attacked the victims with a karambit knife, police said on sunday.
two victims, aged 14 and 15, were taken to hospital.
a karambit knife recovered from one of the men was also seized.
police investigations are ongoing.
preliminary investigations revealed that the three victims are known to the assailants and they were allegedly attacked due to a dispute.
the offence of rioting armed with a deadly weapon carries a jail term of up to 10 years, as well as caning.
"the police will not tolerate such brazen acts of violence and blatant disregard of the law," said the police in a statement.
"we will spare no effort to apprehend such offenders and deal with them in accordance with the law.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem • israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu's record 12-year hold on power was set to end yesterday when the knesset, or parliament, votes on a new government, ushering in an administration that has pledged to heal a nation bitterly divided over his departure.
mr netanyahu, the most dominant israeli politician of his generation, had failed to form a government after the march 23 election, the fourth in two years.
mr naftali bennett, a hawkish tech millionaire, was poised to replace him as head of a new government of unlikely allies that include left-wing, centrist and arab legislators, which he cobbled together with opposition leader yair lapid.
parliament convened to approve the government in a confidence vote that would follow speeches and a debate set to take several hours.
after its ratification, the new cabinet would be sworn in.
mr bennett, 49, an orthodox jew, will serve as premier for two years before mr lapid, a former tv host, takes over.
"thank you benjamin netanyahu for your lengthy and achievement-filled service on behalf of the state of israel," mr bennett said in a speech at the start of the session.
the government, including for the first time a party that represents israel's 21 per cent arab minority, plans largely to avoid sweeping moves on hot-button international issues such as policy towards the palestinians, and to focus on domestic reforms.
with little to no prospect of progress towards resolving the decades-long conflict with israel, many palestinians will be unmoved by the change of administration, saying mr bennett will likely pursue the same right-wing agenda as mr netanyahu.
that looked likely regarding israel's top security concern, iran.
a bennett spokesman said he would vow "vigorous opposition" should the united states return to the 2015 iranian nuclear deal but would seek cooperation with the administration of us president joe biden.
"love you, thank you!"
mr netanyahu wrote in a message yesterday, illustrated with a heart emoji, to the israeli public on twitter that featured a photo of the 71-year-old leader against the backdrop of an israeli flag.
on the international stage, with his polished english and booming baritone voice, the telegenic mr netanyahu has become the face of israel.
serving his first term as prime minister in the 1990s and since 2009 winning four more terms in succession, he has been a polarising figure, both abroad and at home.
he is loved by his supporters and loathed by critics.
his ongoing corruption trial on charges he denies has only deepened the chasm.
his opponents have long reviled what they see as mr netanyahu's divisive rhetoric, underhanded political tactics and subjection of state interests to his own political survival.
celebrations by his opponents to mark the end of the netanyahu era began late on saturday outside his official residence in jerusalem, the site of weekly protests for the past year, where a black banner stretched across a wall read: "bye bye, bibi, bye bye", referring to him by his nickname, bibi.
demonstrators sang, beat drums and danced.
but for mr netanyahu's large and loyal voter base, the departure of "king bibi" may be difficult to accept.
his supporters are angered by what they see as israel turning its back on a leader dedicated to its security and a bulwark against international pressure for any steps that could lead to a palestinian state, even as he clinched diplomatic deals with the united arab emirates, bahrain, morocco and sudan.
none of those moves, however, nor the role he played in securing covid-19 vaccines for israel's world-beating inoculation campaign, were enough to grant his likud party sufficient votes to secure him a sixth term.
mr bennett has drawn anger from within the right-wing camp for breaking a campaign pledge by joining forces with mr lapid.
he has countered that another election a likely outcome if no government were formed would have been a disaster for israel.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
thor's chris hemsworth and guardians of the galaxy's chris pratt reunite in a behind-the-scenes photo posted for a third chris' birthday.
thor the asgardian and the one of the guardians of the galaxy have reunited once again for a special occasion: chris evans' birthday.
thor: love and thunder's chris hemsworth posted a behind-the-scenes photo featuring himself and costar chris pratt, who is returning in the upcoming film as peter quill, also known as star-lord.
in a caption, hemsworth wrote, "happy 40th birthday chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book.
"related: thor 4 set photos reveal 'new asgard,' a viking ship and morea post shared by chris hemsworth (@chrishemsworth)thor and quill met for the first time in avengers: infinity war, when the guardians of the galaxy found the god of thunder floating in space after thanos destroyed the statesman and half of the asgardian refugees aboard the ship.
thor, quill and the rest of the guardians of the galaxy departed from earth in avengers: endgame, leaving earth and new asgard with valkyrie appointed as the settlement's ruler.
taika waititi's upcoming thor: love and thunder wrapped production in late may.
the next instalment in the thor film series will see jane foster return in her first mcu appearance since thor: the dark world.
more importantly, as announced in 2019, foster will take on the mantle of the god of thunder.
related: loki's time-keepers tried to stop the avengers from formingit has been confirmed that the guardians of the galaxy will return in the film and, though plot details have been kept under wraps, will aid the asgardians as they go head to head against the villainous cosmic entity known as gorr the god butcher, played by christian bale.
additionally, several other major names are attached, such as russell crowe, who will play the greek god zeus, as revealed by a leaked audio clip.
actor matt damon, who played a stage version of loki in thor: ragnarok, will return for the fourth thor film, alongside actors sam neill and luke hemsworth, who also appeared in the play recounting the events of thor: the dark world.
photos taken from the set reveal that melissa mccarthy will appear in a play within the film retelling the events of thor: ragnarok, with mccarthy playing hela.
directed by taika waititi, thor: love and thunder stars chris hemsworth as thor, tessa thompson as valkyrie, natalie portman as jane foster, jaimie alexander as lady sif, chris pratt as star-lord, dave bautista as drax, karen gillan as nebula and christian bale as gorr the god butcher.
the film arrives in theaters may 6, 2022. keep reading: thor 4: chris hemsworth and taika waititi wrap filming with bts photosource: instagramnarayan liu (/nəraɪʌn lɪʊ/ in ipa) is a contributing features and news writer, and junior editor at cbr.
from hong kong, currently based in sweden.
nowadays narayan writes about films, tv shows, comic books and video games, or about anything related to the witcher.
he does this while studying language, culture, and communication at linnaeus university.
you can follow him on his blog (narayanliu.
wordpress.
com), on twitter (@narayan_liu) or contact him directly at narayan(dot)liu(at)gmail.
com.
jacinda ardern says subject still feels 'very raw' amid ongoing accusations that film sidelines muslim victims of 2019 massacrelast modified on sun 13 jun 2021 23.
28 edta producer for a controversial hollywood film depicting jacinda ardern's response to the christchurch terror attacks has resigned from the project after criticisms that it sidelined muslim victims.
the premise of the film, they are us, has also been criticised by its proposed subject, new zealand prime minister ardern, who is slated to be played by rose byrne.
ardern said on sunday it felt "very soon and very raw" for new zealand, and that she was not an appropriate focus for a film about the 2019 mosque attacks.
"there are plenty of stories from march 15 that could be told, but i don't consider mine to be one of them," she said.
ardern has reiterated that she has no involvement with the film.
the movie was announced by the hollywood reporter on friday, and billed as an "inspirational story about the young leader's response to the tragic events".
it immediately came under fire for centring on the leadership of a white woman against the backdrop of the mass murder of 51 muslims by a white supremacist.
many muslim new zealanders criticised the move as "exploitative", "insensitive", and "obscene".
a petition to shut down the film's production has gained about 60,000 signatures over the past three days.
on monday, new zealand producer philippa campbell announced that she was resigning from the proposed production.
"i've listened to the concerns raised over recent days and i have heard the strength of people's views.
i now agree that the events of march 15, 2019 are too raw for film at this time and do not wish to be involved with a project that is causing such distress," she said in a statement released to media.
"the announcement was focused on film business, and did not take enough account of the political and human context of the story in this country.
it's the complexity of that context i've been reflecting on that has led me to this decision.
"when the film was announced on friday, writer and community advocate guled mire told the guardian that the premise was "completely insensitive".
"the reality is many victims are struggling right now.
they're really still trying to pick up the pieces – financially, everything," he said.
"this tapped into that vulnerability to make the most out of the situation.
"the film will be directed and written by new zealander andrew niccol, who wrote and directed gattaca​.
niccol has not yet commented on the response to the film's announcement.
the guardian has contacted the associated production companies for comment.
the battle for the title of best chris rages on in hollywood as chris evans gets trolled on his 40th birthday by chris hemsworth.
"happy 40th birthday chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book," hemsworth shared via instagram with a photo of himself alongside chris pratt.
fans couldn't help but get in on the fun in the comments, with a particularly popular one adding another chris to the mix.
"that's not chris evans, it's chris pine.
"the confusion between marvel stars evans and pratt began in january when the latter's father-in-law arnold schwarzenegger mistakenly referred to him as the former.
pratt married the terminator star's eldest daughter katherine in 2019.
"hello, chris .
.
.
evans, oh not chris evans, sorry, i'm going to screw up this whole thing right from the beginning, chris pratt," schwarzenegger said during an ig charity live event hosted by pratt.
he added, "i didn't look at the cue cards the right way.
sorry about that.
i should know your name, i should know your name.
that's for sure.
you're my favorite son-in-law"mark ruffalo also celebrated evans' milestone birthday though with much less fanfare.
"sending all the virtual hugs to you on your birthday, brother!
two can play the 'no phones on set' game, @chrisevans.
"related content:
on june 13, sbs's "running man" aired their final race with lee kwang soo.
back in april, lee kwang soo announced that he was stepping down from the show after eleven years due to persisting issues with the ankle injury he sustained last year.
in the june 13 episode, lee kwang soo met with the production staff ahead of time to create a race full of memories to share with the other members.
he said, "first, i want to go to the place where we first started filming.
we also went to the han river a lot on the show, and the weather is nice these days.
of the things i want to eat, i have fond memories of the chicken and kalguksu i had when we filmed at my house.
if possible, i also want to eat grilled pork belly.
it would also be nice to go to the lp bar again.
"he added, "personally, i want it to feel like normal.
that's my honest feeling.
"just as lee kwang soo wished, the race opened at the same location where "running man" had started filming eleven years ago.
ji suk jin said, "even the staff members are sad for kwang soo's final recording.
let's talk about him a lot today. "
but lee kwang soo quipped, "you didn't say anything while we weren't recording, but as soon as the cameras turned on, you came out with that line ready.
"hilariously, the production staff sentenced lee kwang soo to 1050 years in prison after reviewing all the actions he had committed during the past eleven years of filming "running man. "
the "race" this episode was about the other members helping him to commute and reduce his sentence.
after lee kwang soo had changed into his prison clothes and the cast were on their way to their next mission, yoo jae suk said jokingly, "you should rethink your decision.
if you suddenly said right now, 'i'm sorry!
', then the viewers would understand.
they'd be like, 'that rascal,' and laugh, and move on. "
haha asked lee kwang soo what he would do on mondays now that he wouldn't film "running man," and yoo jae suk said, "he'll just lie there.
"one of the missions featured the other cast members answering questions about lee kwang soo, which ji suk jin, haha, and jun so min failed.
however, yoo jae suk moved lee kwang soo by getting the name of lee kwang soo's father correct.
song ji hyo and kim jong kook also got their answers correct and the sentence was reduced by 120 years.
in the final mission, lee kwang soo succeeded on his first try and reduced his sentence to zero.
at the end, the cast members and lee kwang soo wrote letters to each other.
ji suk jin wrote, "it's been eleven years since i first met you.
at first, i only knew you from tv as that tall kid, but now you're a younger brother whom i'll always be with.
even though it wasn't much when we first started it, it somehow became a meaningful moment for me.
i was happy every time we did the 'pil!
chok!
cross!'
together.
let's go together always, even if it isn't on 'running man.
'"yoo jae suk said, "it's been eleven years since we started 'running man' together.
you've been through a lot and worked hard during that time.
i'm not sure who i'll keep interrupting and piggybacking now, but i think it will probably be yang se chan or ji suk jin.
it will feel empty without you, but you should do all the things that you wanted to do now without worrying about us.
let's see each other often, and call me when something happens.
thank you, kwang soo.
thanks to you, it was never dull.
"kim jong kook said, "i'm not sure what was so funny now, thinking about all the times we started laughing while just looking at each other.
it felt like we would go on like this forever without changing.
the regret is even stronger because it's kwang soo, with whom i thought i would go until the end.
even though we aren't able to go on with 'running man' together anymore, let's go for the rest of our lives together.
stay healthy.
"haha said, "since i've seen you every week for 11 years, it feels like i'll see you again next week still.
i think that the viewers are so sad about this because they could see that lee kwang soo had always done his best and showed his passion until now.
kwang soo, you worked hard.
who will i tease now?
who will i con now?
who will i talk all night with now?
i'll pray for you to shine wherever you are and achieve all the dreams you want.
"although the atmosphere was a tearful one, song ji hyo's letter prompted laughter when lee kwang soo was unable to decipher her handwriting.
she had written, "when i was annoyed, happy, having a hard time, weighed down, moved, when i was in a strange place or saw something strange.
thanks for spending all these moments of the past 11 years with me.
you worked hard. "
at the end of the recording, she wrote a longer letter that said, "i said this earlier, but i still can't believe that you, who has always been there, won't be there anymore.
i feel like it will all collapse once i realize it, but visit us whenever you're sad.
i love you.
"jun so min said, "i'm grateful that we've known each other for this time that feels long at times and short at others.
thank you for gifting me with memories that i will never forget.
i'll pray for each step you take in future.
we'll keep things going strong!
also, please visit whenever.
we'll be waiting for you. "
yang se chan said, "you worked hard for the past 11 years.
i was really happy spending the past four years with you.
we always call each other after the end of every recording and talked about a lot of things, but now we can't do that.
i'll miss you, and it will feel empty without you.
do everything you want in a world without punishments.
"in his final letter, lee kwang soo said, "the members helped me get to where i am today.
they feel like another family, and i am so, so grateful to them.
i'm sorry.
i'm sorry again.
i wasn't always great in the past eleven years, but i always did my best.
'running man' is a show where everyone without exception does their best and throws their whole bodies into filming.
i ask that people continue to show it more love and interest in future.
thank you.
"at the end, he said to viewers, "i am so happy and thankful for the time we've shared.
"watch "running man": watch now source (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore it was one day before the photo shoot and i was panicking.
i had stuffed about 10 outfits, two pairs of shoes, a straw tote bag and an umbrella into my carry-on luggage, but i was still missing something oh, a picnic mat.
how else would i recreate a photo i had spotted on instagram, in which a young woman lounged on the grassy lawn of marina barrage, with branded sandals and bag casually strewn to the side?please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
paris: after flying into the financial turbulence of the covid-19 pandemic, the airline sector expects passenger traffic to take off despite concerns about the industry's impact on climate change.
in its latest look at trends for the sector, the international air transport association (iata) said it doesn't expect world air traffic to resume to its pre-pandemic level before 2023. but over 20 years, air traffic should almost double, from 4.
5 billion passengers in 2019 to 8.
5 billion in 2039. that is, however, a drop of one billion passengers from iata's pre-crisis forecast.
nevertheless that will be good news for aircraft manufacturers, who slowed down production during the crisis as airlines cancelled orders to stay financially afloat.
airbus has already announced it plans to step up the manufacturing cadence of its best-selling a320 single-aisle aircraft and should reach a record level already in 2023. boeing, for its part, forecasts that airlines will need 43,110 new aircraft through 2039, which will result in a near doubling of the global fleet.
asia alone will account for 40 per cent of that demand.
as with the sep11 attacks or the global financial crisis of 2007-2009, "the industry will prove resilient again", darren hulst, vice president of marketing at boeing, said last year.
marc ivaldi, research director at the paris-based school for advanced studies in the social sciences, noted that only 1 per cent of the population currently uses air travel.
"with the simple demographic rise and the fact that people become richer there will be rising demand for air travel and thus for aircraft," he told afp.
if the biggest aircraft fleets are currently in the united states and europe, the biggest increases are expected in asia and the middle east, the consulting firm oliver wyman said in a recent study.
"flight shaming"airbus delivered 19 per cent of its planes to china, more than the united states, and this trend is not expected to change.
in many emerging countries where the middle class is expanding air travel is becoming possible for more and more people.
"among asia's emerging nations, one of the greatest aspirational goals is simply the ability to fly internationally," said the center for aviation (capa).
"it is a sign of social and economic maturity and permits experiences which were unthinkable for their parents.
"it noted that these people were unlikely to share the growing sentiment among some people in the west towards reducing air travel to reduce one's carbon footprint.
"for these new would-be flyers, the whole concept of 'flight shaming' at a grass roots level is grossly alien," said capa.
"consequently, in asia flight shaming is unlikely to gain much traction," it added.
the "flight shaming" or "flygskam" movement took off in sweden in 2018 to challenge the growing popularity of air travel, which had boomed in europe thanks to budget airlines that made weekend getaways across the continent affordable to a wider public.
in 2019, air traffic declined by four percent in sweden but it hit a record across europe, according to the air traffic control body eurocontrol.
ehess's ivaldi believes flight shaming will have little long-term impact.
"someone who makes one flight per year in a plane, do you really believe that they will say that it is too polluting and give it up?"
he said.
but countries like sweden have begun to reintroduce night trains to give travellers greener options to travel.
france, which is boosting its night trains, is also cutting domestic flights when it is possible to make the journey by train in under two and a half hours.
ivaldi believes that to be a largely empty gesture as fast trains have already taken most of the market on such routes.
the air sector has pledged to cut its carbon emissions in half by 2050 from their level in 2005. airlines have an economic incentive to do so, as adopting more fuel efficient planes reduces operating costs.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                one of the men is suspected to have attacked the victims with a karambit knife.
photo from singapore police force via the straits times/annsingapore, june 13 (the straits times/ann): seven men aged between 15 and 29 were arrested on saturday (june 12) for rioting armed with a deadly weapon.
five will be charged in court on monday (june 14).
they were involved in a fight last friday night where three young people were attacked in jalan bukit merah.
one of the men is suspected to have attacked the victims with a karambit knife, police said on sunday.
two victims, aged 14 and 15, were taken to hospital.
a karambit knife recovered from one of the men was also seized.
police investigations are ongoing.
preliminary investigations revealed that the three victims are known to the assailants and they were allegedly attacked due to a dispute.
the offence of rioting armed with a deadly weapon carries a jail term of up to 10 years, as well as caning.
"the police will not tolerate such brazen acts of violence and blatant disregard of the law," said the police in a statement.
"we will spare no effort to apprehend such offenders and deal with them in accordance with the law. "
the straits times/ann
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cops
                                                                ,
                                                                                                seven
                                                                ,
                                                                                                men
                                                                ,
                                                                                                arrested
                                                                ,
                                                                                                rioting
                                                                ,
                                                                                                three youngsters
                                                                ,
                                                                                                hurt



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a 60-year-old man has been arrested for attempted murder at a carpark in choa chu kang avenue 3.  the police said on sunday (june 13) that officers responded to a case of assault with a knife at about 9.
35pm on saturday.
a 52-year-old man, who was found conscious with stab wounds, was taken to hospital.
the suspect fled the scene before the police arrived, but was arrested within two hours of the incident.
the police said preliminary investigations revealed that the alleged attacker knew the victim.
the suspect will be charged in court with attempted murder on monday.
if convicted, he will be liable for life imprisonment, imprisonment of up to 20 years and a fine, or both.
male offenders above 50 are spared caning.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
brexit ministers always intended to ignore the agreement they signed and blame the eu for the consequences, argues adrian ward.
plus letters from mike pender, steve fildes, chris webster and amin kassam last modified on sun 13 jun 2021 13.
06 edtif you make an agreement with someone, you have to honour it (boris johnson to face pressure from eu on northern ireland, 12 june).
if you unilaterally decide to change the terms, you have broken the agreement and the other party will not trust you to keep your word in future and may penalise you.
but boris johnson and his ministers knew exactly what they were doing in december 2019 to "get brexit done" and never had any intention of sticking to the agreement over northern ireland – get it signed, then just ignore it and blame the eu for all the repercussions.
johnson's political playbook, page one.
adrian wardle bez, france the eu has suggested a temporary food standards agreement that would do away with 80% of the checks required under the northern irish protocol.
however, the uk has ruled out following eu rules even for few years because "it fears this would hinder its trade negotiations elsewhere" (brexit: what is the northern ireland row about?, 9 june).
the uk's stance is illogical and disingenuous.
boris johnson and his ministers have repeatedly promised that the uk's food standards would not be relaxed after brexit and, if anything, would be higher than in the eu.
if this is truly the government's intention, why not make temporary alignment with eu food standards the minimum requirement for foodstuffs going to northern ireland?such an approach would be relatively straightforward to implement, given that the uk's food standards have not changed since brexit.
and it should not impact adversely on trade deals with other countries unless the uk, contrary to its stated policy, wishes to import food from countries with less rigorous standards than in the uk.
mike pendercardiff we should not let the government obscure the northern ireland protocol problems by throwing a dead cat, or in this case a dead pig, on to the table.
it is nothing to do with anything as trivial as sausages, which is what the pm wants the public to believe.
we signed an agreement and now want the eu to break their own rules because they do not, and never did, suit our purpose.
how can we expect 27 countries to compromise their principles to meet ours?
that is plainly absurd.
the rules were clear before we started negotiations, so to now claim not to understand them is either a big lie or incompetence.
the eu has offered a solution: that we align our standards with theirs, which they already do.
result, sausages back on the table.
steve fildesalfrick, worcestershire dominic raab wants the eu to be "less purist, more pragmatic and more flexible" in its approach to the northern ireland protocol.
if brexit fanatics in his party had shown similar pragmatism or flexibility in implementing brexit, then the protocol would never have been necessary.
labour mps too should consider the consequences of their endorsement of tory brexit purism.
chris webster gümligen, switzerland david frost regards the eu stance on the northern ireland protocol as "legal purism".
it seems the tories would prefer "impurism", so that they could have enough wriggle room to interpret the protocol whichever way they want.
amin kassam voorburg, the netherlands have an opinion on anything you've read in the guardian today?
please email us your letter and it will be considered for publication.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore if you find yourself struggling to spell words like receive and successful, you are not alone.
a recent study by edubirdie, a professional essay writing service, revealed that these are among the most commonly misspelt words found in essays submitted to it by students in the united states, britain, canada and australia for editing between 2019 and 2020. the study analysed the grammatical mistakes made by students in their essays, going through more than 500,000 words in total.
it found that spelling mistakes ranked highest among the types of language errors, which include misplaced modifiers and lack of subject-verb agreement.
english language educators see similar patterns here.
mr benjamin wong, a secondary school teacher, has noticed that the word receive is very commonly misspelt as students here tend to switch the positions of the letters i and e. words like accommodate and convenient are also commonly spelt wrongly.
he attributes a regression in the spelling abilities of younger generations, as compared with older ones, to an over-reliance on automatic spelling correction tools in smartphones and word processors like microsoft word.
"many do not feel the need to learn the correct spelling by heart because they can always use the predictive text and autocorrect function in their phones and laptops.
"mr wong adds that texting could play a role in causing mistakes, as many people do not have enough practice spelling out difficult words in full.
"with texting being the most common mode of communication, many text in shorthand.
for example, instead of spelling 'separate' in full, many type 'sep'.
"ms christabel hong, an english tutor, echoes this sentiment but adds that there could be other reasons for misspelling words.
one factor could be mispronunciation.
words like privilege and mischievous, for example, are frequently misspelt because they are often pronounced incorrectly.
ms hong says changes in form may also lead to mistakes converting the verb explain to the noun explanation, for instance, can be confusing as it involves adding and removing letters.
to improve spelling ability, both educators emphasise the need to make a conscious effort to do so.
mr wong says: "i do believe we have to make a concerted and deliberate attempt to correct our spelling errors by committing the correct spelling to memory.
"top 10 misspelt words1.
tomorrow: misspelt as tommorow2.
which: misspelt as wich3.
completely: misspelt as completly4.
receive: misspelt as recieve5.
until: misspelt as untill6.
finally: misspelt as finaly7.
successful: misspelt as succesful8.
beginning: misspelt as begining9.
definitely: misspelt as definately10.
government: misspelt as goverment• source: edubirdie get the st smart parenting newsletter for expert advice.
visit the microsite for more.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
london (reuters) united states president joe biden said on sunday (june 13) china had to be more transparent and allow access to their laboratories so the west could determine whether or not the covid-19 virus was the result of "an experiment gone awry".
"we haven't had access to the laboratories to determine whether or not i've not reached a conclusion because our intelligence community is not certain yet whether or not this was.
.
.
from the market place of a bat interfacing with animals and the environment that caused this covid-19, or whether it was an experiment gone awry in a laboratory," he said.
"it's important to know the answer to that," mr biden told reporters at the conclusion of a group of seven leaders' summit in britain.
the g-7 leaders had called for a transparent, science-based study, including in china, into the origins of covid-19, to be convened by the world health organisation.
mr biden, meanwhile, said western democracies are in a race to compete with autocratic governments.
"we're in a contest, not with china per se.
.
.
with autocrats, autocratic governments around the world, as to whether or not democracies can compete with them in a rapidly changing 21st century," he told reporters.
on china specifically, mr biden said: "i think you're gonna see just straightforward dealing with china.
"as i've told (president) xi jinping myself, i'm not looking for conflict.
where we cooperate, we'll cooperate; where we disagree, i'm going to state this frankly, and we are going to respond to actions that are inconsistent," he said.
italian prime minister mario draghi said the g-7 countries had to be frank about differences between the west and china in its post-summit communique that called out beijing on issues ranging from rights to the origins of the coronavirus.
"it's an autocracy that does not adhere to multilateral rules and does not share the same vision of the world that the democracies have," mr draghi told reporters on sunday after the summit in britain.
"we need to cooperate but we also need to be frank about things that we do not share and do not accept.
the us president said that silence is complicity," draghi said,about the origins of the covid-19 virus, president biden said last month he had ordered aides to find answers to the origin of the virus.
he asked for another update in 90 days.
intelligence agencies in the us are considering two likely scenarios that the virus resulted from a laboratory accident or that it emerged from human contact with an infected animal but they have not come to a conclusion, mr biden said.
a still-classified intelligence report circulated during former president donald trump's administration alleged that three researchers at china's wuhan institute of virology fell so ill in november 2019 that they sought hospital care, us government sources have said.
china has strongly denied any of the three were ill or that the lab was the source of the pandemic.
a who-led research mission on wuhan early this year concluded the sars-cov-2 virus most likely spilled over to humans from animals either directly from a bat or via another mammal, possibly one sold at the huanan seafood and fresh produce market in wuhan, the provincial capital of hubei.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
discover thomson reutersby reuters staff2 min readsydney (reuters) australia's victoria state, which was a coronavirus hotspot until last week, reported two new locally acquired covid-19 cases on monday.
the new infections follow low single-digit numbers over the weekend and pose little threat to the community as the people were already in isolation, health authorities said.
"the two new locally acquired cases are primary close contacts of existing cases, with no community exposure during their infectious period," victoria's health department said.
australia's second most-populous state has recorded 94 cases in its latest wave of covid-19 infections, which triggered a two-week snap lockdown late last month.
victoria emerged from the lockdown on friday as new cases declined, but some physical-distancing rules remain.
the state expects to announce further easing of covid-19 restrictions this week, acting premier james merlino said on sunday, as a strict two-week lockdown was successful in taming the virus.
australia has fared much better than many other developed countries during the pandemic, with more than 22,300 local covid-19 cases and 910 deaths since march 2020, mostly in victorian aged-care homes.
(graphic on global cases and deaths) tmsnrt.
rs/34pvuyisnap lockdowns, internal border controls and tough social-distancing rules have helped it contain prior outbreaks.
reporting by swati pandey; editing by lisa shumakerour standards: the thomson reuters trust principles.
all quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes.
see here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there have been reports from numerous countries of animals, including pets, getting infected with covid-19.
last week, an asiatic lion at a zoo in india died from it.
its death prompted the testing of dozens of elephants at a forest reserve in the country.
tigers in india have also been tested.
russia reportedly started vaccinating pets at veterinary clinics with its carnivak-cov vaccine in late may.
the straits times (st) answers some common questions about animals and covid-19.
a: a small number of animals, including pet dogs, mink raccoon dogs and zoo animals such as tigers and lions have tested positive for covid-19 after coming into contact with infected individuals.
two cases of human-to-cat covid-19 transmission in the united kingdom were reported in the journal veterinary research in late april, providing further evidence of such spread.
"one had mild illness and the other severe.
the viral strains in both cats were very similar to human strains," said professor paul tambyah from the nus yong loo lin school of medicine.
covid-19 infections in farmed mink have also been reported in at least 10 countries.
millions of the animals, which are valued for their fur, have been culled to prevent future spillover events to humans.
a: there are very few reports of an animal passing covid-19 back to humans, though there were reports of mink farmers in northern europe infected by strains that moved from humans to mink and back to humans, said prof tambyah.
the vast majority of the millions of sars-cov-2 infections have been human-to-human transmissions and it appears that animal-to-human transmission is extremely rare, he added.
the world organisation for animal health (oie) said that animals do not play a significant role in the covid-19 pandemic, which is being sustained through human-to-human transmission.
a: confirmed cases in cats and dogs are extremely rare and generally result in mild symptoms, said the world small animal veterinary association (wsava) in the united states.
no dog or cat is known to have died from the infection to date, it said.
people with suspected or confirmed covid-19 infection should avoid contact with animals, including pets, livestock and wildlife, said the us centres for disease control and prevention (cdc).
if you suspect your pet has covid-19, you can contact the national parks board's animal and veterinary services.
it conducts biosurveillance and is able to do the right kind of polymerase chain reaction testing for sars-cov-2 in animals, said prof tambyah.
a: no.
prof tambyah said there are no licensed covid-19 vaccines for animals here.
the wsava said there have been no cases in which a dog or a cat has been proven to transmit the virus to people.
there is no need for owners to consider vaccinating their pets against sars-cov-2 at this time, it said.
"as sars-cov-2 infection of dogs and cats most commonly originates from an infected human, the best way to protect a pet is to vaccinate the owners so that they are less likely to infect their pet," it said in a late april statement.
in the us last year, veterinary pharmaceutical firm zoetis started development activities for a vaccine, based on initial concerns about sars-cov-2 in domestic animals.
"if regulatory authorities determine there is a need, we are prepared to act quickly to further develop our covid-19 vaccine for animals," ms christina lood, its senior director of innovation and sustainability communications, told st. a: the exact origins of sars-cov-2 are yet to be determined.
it could be many years before we know for sure.
the common belief so far is that sars-cov-2 likely originated from bats, a known reservoir of coronaviruses, and jumped to humans through an unknown intermediary animal host, like a pangolin.
still, a june 7 report by researchers from china west normal university and oxford university found that more than 47,000 live animals were sold at wuhan wet markets from may 2017 to november 2019, but no pangolins or bats were traded.
there are other hypotheses, including the politically charged theory that sars-cov-2 was leaked from a laboratory in china.
the oie estimates that at least 75 per cent of emerging infectious diseases affecting humans, including ebola, hiv and influenza, have an animal origin.
a: the four wildlife parks here already have strict protocols, such as quarantining new animals, to prevent cross transmission of diseases from humans to animals under their care and vice versa, said a wildlife reserves singapore (wrs) spokesman.
the covid-19 outbreak led to more measures, including the need for staff to wash their hands with soap and water before interacting with an animal, as well as donning face masks and gloves when working with an animal.
they also minimise or avoid direct contact unless required, especially with higher-risk species such as primates and carnivores.
"as added preventive measures, our great apes such as the orangutans and chimpanzees also undergo temperature checks twice a day," said the wrs spokesman.
he said the risk of humans contracting covid-19 from animals is very low.
"in addition, our veterinarians assess that due to the low number of community cases in singapore, coupled with the extra precaution we have taken to care for our animals, the risk of our animals contracting covid-19 is very low," he said.
none of the zoo animals here has been infected with covid-19.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
keep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storiesa motley alliance of israeli parties on sunday ended benjamin netanyahu's 12 straight years as prime minister, as parliament voted in a new government led by his former ally, right-wing jewish nationalist naftali bennett.
bennett, a tech millionaire and former special forces commander, was sworn in at the helm of an ideologically divided eight-party bloc united only by disdain for the country's longest-serving prime minister.
netanyahu, 71, in typically combative style, vowed shortly before his defeat that "if it's our destiny to be in the opposition, we'll do so with our heads high until we take down this bad government and return to lead the country our way".
beloved as "king bibi" and "mr security" by his right-wing supporters and condemned as the "crime minister" by his critics, netanyahu has long dominated israeli politics.
but on sunday, a vote in the knesset legislature following weeks of political drama ended his government with a razor-thin majority of 60 to 59 in the 120-seat chamber.
us president joe biden swiftly congratulated bennett.
"i look forward to working with prime minister bennett to strengthen all aspects of the close and enduring relationship between our two nations.
israel has no better friend than the united states," he said in a statement.
delighted revelers packed a square near the knesset (parliament) in jerusalem and poured into tel aviv's city centre to celebrate netanyahu's fall.
throngs of people gathered in the coastal city, clapping, cheering and waving flags.
in tel aviv's rabin square, netanyahu's opponents launched into celebrations, waving "bye bye bibi" placards.
fragile coalition -bennett, 49, told the knesset before the vote that his government "represents all of israel".
he said the country, after four inconclusive elections in under two years, had been thrown "into a maelstrom of hatred and in-fighting".
"the time has come for different leaders, from all parts of the population, to stop, to stop this madness", he said, to angry shouts of "liar" and "criminal" from right-wing opponents.
netanyahu, who is battling corruption charges in a trial he dismisses as a conspiracy, has been the dominant israeli politician of his generation, having also served a previous three-year term in the 1990s.
his supporters have hailed him as a defender of israel who has been tough on archfoe iran, but who also struck a series of historic normalisation deals with arab nations last year.
being ousted from the top job leaves netanyahu more exposed to his legal troubles, denying him the chance to push through legislation that could give him immunity.
bennett, a former defence minister under netanyahu, vowed to keep israel safe from iran, promising that "israel won't let iran have nuclear weapons", a goal the islamic republic denies pursuing.
netanyahu claimed iran saw "celebrating" the birth of a "dangerous", weak left-wing government.
the diverse anti-netanyahu bloc was cobbled together by the secular centrist yair lapid, a former tv presenter.
it spans the political spectrum, with three right-wing, two centrist and two left-wing parties, and even an arab islamic conservative party.
lapid, 57, is to serve as foreign minister for the next two years before taking over from bennett.
german chancellor angela merkel on sunday congratulated bennett in comments tweeted by her spokeswoman: "germany and israel are connected by a unique friendship that we want to strengthen further.
with this in mind, i look forward to working closely with you.
"canadian prime minister justin trudeau sent a message of congratulations, adding that ottawa "remains steadfast in its commitment to a two-state solution, with israelis and palestinians living in peace, security, and dignity – without fear and with their human rights respected".
british foreign secretary dominic raab tweeted: "i look forward to continued cooperation on security, trade and climate change, and working together to secure peace in the region.
"european council president charles michel also tweeted his congratulations.
'fraud' -the improbable alliance emerged weeks after an 11-day war between israel and hamas, the islamist group that rules the palestinian enclave of gaza, and following inter-communal violence in israeli cities with significant arab populations.
netanyahu, a mastermind at navigating israel's fractious politics, had tried in vain to peel off defectors, hoping to deprive the nascent coalition of its hard-won majority.
he accused bennett of "fraud" for siding with rivals.
angry rallies by the premier's likud party supporters resulted in security being bolstered for some lawmakers.
as his grip on power slipped, netanyahu's bombastic remarks drew parallels to former us president donald trump, who described his election loss last year as the result of a rigged vote.
sunday's knesset approval also came amid heightened tensions with the palestinians.
right-wing israelis are also angered over last week's postponement of a controversial jewish nationalist march through flashpoint areas of east jerusalem.
the "march of the flags" is now slated for tuesday, representing a key early test for the new government.
gaza's rulers hamas said political developments in jerusalem wouldn't change their position on israel.
"the form the israeli government takes doesn't change the nature of our relationship," said the group's spokesman fawzi barhoum.
"it's still a colonising and occupying power that we must resist.
"mdo/har/jjit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.

 
sunday jun 13, 2021 captain america star chris evans on saturday celebrated his 40th birthday.
millions of his fans took to social media to extend birthday wishes to their favorite actor.
evan's co-stars from "avengers" also wished him on his birthday and posted throwback photos with the actor.
chris hemsworth, who played thor in avengers, shared a picture with chris pratt  and wrote a funny caption that read, "happy 40th birthday chris evans.
you'ill always be number 1 in my book.
"his caption was a reference to the first names of the three actors.
jeremy  renner shared a throwback photo with evans and wrote, "happy 40th to you my brother!!!
i mess you. "
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
while she is currently not linked to existing clusters, other cleaners from hong ye group have been linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases an 82-year-old singaporean woman was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
correction note: this story has been edited for clarity.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                man reacts while receiving a dose of a covid-19 vaccine inside a public bus, used as a coronavirus disease vaccination venue, outside the madani hospital in pekanbaru, riau province.
reutersjakarta, june 13 (xinhua): indonesia has detected the highly infectious delta coronavirus variant in the recent spike in covid-19 cases in kudus district of central java province, the province's governor ganjar pranowo said on sunday.
the governor said that 86.
11 perccent or 62 out of a total of 72 samples of recent covid-19 cases in kudus emanated from the delta variant first reported in india.
"the spread of this virus variant is very fast.
"three weeks ago covid-19 in kudus affected only three sub-districts but today they are happening in 11 sub-districts," pranowo said.
"kudus experienced a significant increase in positive cases of covid-19 in a week, jumping more than 30 times from 26 to 929 cases," wiku adisasmito, the national covid-19 task force spokesperson, said recently.
kudus has so far recorded 10, 525 confirmed cases of covid-19 including 7, 322 recoveries and 861 deaths.
health minister budi gunadi sadikin said the delta variant in kudus came from indonesian migrant workers returned from india and seaport activities.
"we have been taking good care of airports and seaports in indonesia," said the minister.
xinhua
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                delta variant
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                confirmed
                                                                ,
                                                                                                kudus district



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
carbis bay, england — leaders of the group of seven wealthy nations staked their claim sunday to leading the world out of the coronavirus pandemic and crisis, pledging more than 1 billion coronavirus vaccine doses to poorer nations, vowing to help developing countries grow while fighting climate change and backing a minimum tax on multinational firms.
at the group's first face-to-face meeting in two years, the leaders dangled promises of support for global health, green energy, infrastructure and education — all to demonstrate that international cooperation is back after the upheavals caused by the pandemic and the unpredictability of former u. s.  president donald trump.
during their three-day summit in southwest england, the g-7 leaders wanted to convey that the club of wealthy democracies — canada, france, germany, italy, japan, the united kingdom and the united states — is a better friend to poorer nations than authoritarian rivals such as china.
"this isn't about imposing our values on the rest of the world," british prime minister boris johnson told reporters at the end of the seaside summit on the rugged cornwall coast.
"what we as the g-7 need to do is demonstrate the benefits of democracy and freedom and human rights to the rest of the world.
"u. s.  president joe biden, who was making his first foreign trip as leader, said it was an "extraordinary, collaborative and productive meeting" that showed "america's back in the business of leading the world alongside nations who share our most deeply held values.
"but health and environmental campaigners were distinctly unimpressed by the details in the leaders' final communique.
"this g-7 summit will live on in infamy," said max lawson, the head of inequality policy at the international aid group oxfam.
"faced with the biggest health emergency in a century and a climate catastrophe that is destroying our planet, they have completely failed to meet the challenges of our times.
"despite johnson's call to "vaccinate the world" by the end of 2022, the promise of 1 billion doses for vaccine-hungry countries — coming both directly and through donations to the international covax program — falls far short of the 11 billion doses the world health organization said is needed to vaccinate at least 70% of the world's population and truly end the pandemic.
half of the billion-dose pledge is coming from the united states and 100 million from britain.
canada said it also would give 100 million doses, and france pledged 60 million.
altogether, the leaders said they pledged 870 million doses "directly over the next year," with further contributions taking the total to the "equivalent of over 1 billion doses.
"former british prime minister gordon brown said the lack of a more ambitious vaccination plan was "an unforgivable moral failure.
"but biden said the leaders were clear that the commitments they made to donate doses wouldn't be the end.
the u. s.  president said getting shots into arms around the world was a "gigantic, logistical effort" and the goal might not be accomplished until 2023. the g-7 also backed a minimum tax of at least 15% on large multinational companies to stop corporations from using tax havens to avoid taxes, a move championed by the united states.
biden also wanted to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing and strongly call out china's "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses.
"the language on china in the g-7 leaders' communique from the meeting was more muted than the united states has used, but biden said he was satisfied.
on china's economic behavior, the group said it would "consult on collective approaches to challenging non-market policies and practices which undermine the fair and transparent operation of the global economy.
"the leaders also said they would promote their values by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms in xinjiang, where beijing is accused of committing serious human rights abuses against the uyghur minority, and in the semi-autonomous city of hong kong.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with the techno-security state as the defining competition of the 21st century.
"the g-7 is not a club hostile to china," french president emmanuel macron said.
"it's an ensemble of democracies that (would) work with china on all world topics that china is ready to work on with us.
"johnson, the summit's host, wanted the three-day meeting to fly the flag for a "global britain," his government's push to give the midsized country, newly detached from the european union, outsized global influence.
yet brexit cast a shadow over that goal during the summit on the coast of southwest england.
european union leaders and biden voiced concerns about problems with new u. k. -eu trade rules that have heightened tensions in northern ireland.
but overall, the mood was positive: the leaders smiled for the cameras on the beach at cliff-fringed carbis bay, a village and resort that became a traffic-clogged fortress for the meeting.
the prime ministers and presidents also mingled with queen elizabeth ii at a royal reception, ate steak and lobster at a beach barbecue and watched an aeronautic display by the royal air force red arrows during their stay by the sea.
america's allies were visibly relieved to have the u. s.  back as an engaged international player after the "america first" policy of the trump administration.
johnson called biden "a breath of fresh air. "
italian premier mario draghi said the president "wanted to rebuild what were the traditional alliances of the united states after the period of trump, during which these alliances were seriously cracked.
"biden flew from the summit in carbis bay to have tea with the queen at windsor castle.
he is scheduled to attend a nato summit in brussels on monday and to hold talks with russian leader vladimir putin in geneva on wednesday.
the g-7 also made ambitious declarations during their meetings about girls' education, preventing future pandemics and financing greener infrastructure globallyon climate change, the "build back better for the world" plan promises to offer financing for infrastructure — "from railways in africa to wind farms in asia" — to help speed up the global shift to renewable energy.
the plan is a response to china's "belt and road" initiative, which has increased beijing's worldwide influence.
all g-7 countries have pledged to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, but many environmentalists say that will be too little, too late.
naturalist david attenborough addressed the leaders by video sunday, warning that humanity is "on the verge of destabilizing the entire planet.
""if that is so, then the decisions we make this decade — in particular the decisions made by the most economically advanced nations — are the most important in human history," the veteran documentary filmmaker said.
as the leaders met behind fences and barbed wire, thousands of environmental protesters gathered throughout the weekend outside the ring of steel to accuse the g-7 of missing a chance to prevent climate catastrophe.
members of the extinction rebellion climate activism group blocked the main road of the town of st.  ives on sunday, banging drums and sitting on the road.
elsewhere, hundreds of surfers and kayakers paddled out to sea to urge better protection for the world's oceans.
"g-7 is all greenwashing," protesters sang during one march.
"we're drowning in promises, now's the time to act.
"___lawless, kirka and hui reported from falmouth, england.
nicole winfield in rome and kirsten grieshaber and frank jordans in berlin contributed.
___follow all ap stories on climate change issues at https://apnews.
com/hub/climate.
the most important news stories of the day, curated by post editors and delivered every morning.
by signing up you agree to our terms of use and privacy policy
newquay, england: us president joe biden said on sunday (jun 13) that "autocrat" vladimir putin was right to say that relations were at their lowest point in years though he suggested that russia might be weaker than it seemed and that moscow had overreached in the middle east.
biden used the g7 summit in the english seaside resort of carbis bay to argue that the world's richest democracies now faced an existential contest with "autocrats" that would define the 21st century.
after attending a nato summit on monday, biden will meet putin on jun 16 in geneva for a meeting that promises to be a combative encounter after disputes over spying, hacking, election meddling, ukraine, belarus and human rights.
biden, who called the former kgb spy a killer in march, cast russia as engaging in unacceptable behaviour on a range of fronts but also pointed to russia's own "dilemmas" its post-soviet economic collapse, what he called overreach in syria and problems with covid-19.
asked why putin, who has served as russia's paramount leader since boris yeltsin resigned in 1999, had not changed despite years of western sanctions, biden quipped: "he's vladimir putin".
"autocrats have enormous power and they don't have to answer to a public and the fact is that it may very well be if i respond in kind, as i will, that it doesn't dissuade him he wants to keep going," biden said of putin.
the two former cold war foes have had a turbulent relationship for years though relations soured after putin sought to rebuild some of the clout lost in the chaotic 1991 soviet collapse and began meddling far beyond russia's borders.
us and other western leaders now see putin and xi jinping's china as their main strategic threats, though the kremlin dismisses as fiction almost all allegations against russia and says the west is gripped by anti-russian hysteria.
the west casts russia as a dictatorial kleptocracy governed by a mercurial elite that has involved itself in irresponsible escapades such as the 2014 annexation of crimea, attempts to meddle in us and european elections, and a series of high-profile espionage and assassination attempts abroad.
russia says putin is democratically elected.
russian "dilemmas"biden, though, depicted russia whose economy is 13 times smaller than the united states as weaker than it might be perceived.
"russia has its own dilemmas, dealing with its economy, dealing with covid-19 and dealing with not only the united states and europe writ large, and in the middle east," he said.
"russia has engaged in activities which we believe are contrary to international norms, but they have also bitten off some real problems, that they're going to have trouble chewing on," biden said.
biden cited syria as a case in point and an area in which the two powers could work together to find "an accommodation".
asked about a russian statement that moscow would be ready to hand over cyber criminals to the united states if washington followed suit, biden said that was a good sign and "progress".
biden said putin was right that relations were at a low.
"he's right it's a low point," biden said.
biden said he had told putin before being elected he would look at whether the russian leader had been involved in trying to interfere with the us election.
"i checked it out, so i had access to all the intelligence, he was engaged in those activities," he said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
hong kong: hong kong police arrested at least three protesters on saturday (jun 12), the anniversary of protests in 2019 that rocked the financial hub and eventually led to beijing introducing a security law that critics say has stifled dissent.
the protesters were arrested for disorderly conduct and failing to produce proof of identity, while at least 10 people were summoned for violating a ban on gatherings, police said, after protests in the kowloon district of mongkok.
some people blocked roads by placing rubbish bins and other objects on them, police said.
"the police strongly condemn .
.
.
acts endangering public health and safety," police said in a post on facebook shortly before midnight on saturday.
the three people arrested were teenagers, aged 15 to 19, police said.
small groups gathered on saturday to commemorate the first major clashes between protesters and police two years ago when tens of thousands demonstrated against a proposed law for the former british colony that would have allowed criminal suspects to be extradited to the mainland for trial.
many hong kong residents saw the proposed law as further erosion of the city's special status that was supposed to be guaranteed under a "one country, two systems" formula agreed when britain handed it over to china in 1997. the 2019 protests snowballed over subsequent months into a mass movement for democracy that included regular clashes between protesters and police firing tear gas and rubber bullets.
police deployed 2,000 officers around the city on saturday, the south china morning post reported.
police said on the eve of the anniversary that they had arrested two people on suspicion of promoting and inciting others to join an unlawful assembly.
activist group student politicism said two of its leaders were arrested.
there was no sign of any protests on sunday.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the long-running "battle of the chrises" has been re-ignited with a 40th birthday salvo sent by chris hemsworth.
the thor actor gave june 13 birthday greetings to captain america, chris evans, with an instagram photo of the smiling hemsworth alongside a different chris: "guardians of the galaxy" star chris pratt.
"happy 40th birthday chris evans, you'll always be number 1 in my book," hemsworth wrote.
the photo appears to be a behind-the-scenes shot from the set of "thor: love and thunder" film, in which both hemsworth, 37, and pratt, 41, are both set to reprise their marvel roles.
hemsworth's birthday post re-establishes long-simmering tension over the greatest chris in hollywood, between hemsworth, evans, pratt and "star trek" actor chris pine.
battle of the chrises:a 2017 breakdown of leading men named chrismore:lizzo drunkenly sent a flirty dm to chris evans: see his hilarious responsethe "battle of the chrises" took a new turn in january, when pratt's father-in-law arnold schwarzenegger mistakenly referred to him as evans during an ig charity live event hosted by pratt.
"hello, chris evans, oh not chris evans, sorry, i'm going to screw up this whole thing right from the beginning.
chris pratt," schwarzenegger said.
"i didn't look at the cue cards the right way.
sorry about that.
i should know your name.
that's for sure.
my favorite son-in-law.
"i'm your only son-in-law," said pratt.
chris pratt, katherine schwarzenegger's anniversary: a look at their gushing love for each otherthe battle was seemingly over when hemsworth and pratt gave the last word in 2018 when the duo sat down with usa today.
"they need to stop bringing chris evans into the discussion," said hemsworth.
more:chris hemsworth may be thor, but his son wants to be another hero: 'dad i wanna be superman'"i think at the end of the day, it's a 50/50 tie," said pratt.
"i love america, but we have a captain already.
""his name is chris evans and it just really makes me mad," hemsworth added.
more:anthony mackie, the new captain america, says getting his own movie 'would be everything'
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
a bodyguard in president tsai ing-wen's entourage tried to bring in 9,800 cigarette cartons as he returned from an official trip accompanying tsai to the caribbean.
the president said at the time that she had no idea her security team was involved and ordered an investigation.
the agent, identified as wu tsung-hsien of the national security bureau, received the heaviest sentence of 10 years and four months on corruption and tax evasion charges, according to taipei district court.
wu tried to pass the cigarettes off as cargo from tsai's presidential plane in an effort to smuggle them past customs, authorities said.
it was later discovered that the scam was not a one-off when china airlines released figures showing huge amounts of duty-free cigarettes were routinely purchased during presidential visits.
the defendants "deprived the government of tax revenue, and seriously damaged the nation's image", judge huang pei-chen told a virtual press conference.
the value of duty evaded on the cigarettes amounted to nearly tw$8.
2 million ($273,000), according to the court.
wu's colleague and main accomplice chang heng-chia was sentenced to 10 years and two months while six other ex-agents received jail terms ranging from six years and two months to seven years.
four airline employees implicated in the scandal were handed prison terms ranging from two years to five years and four months.
they can appeal the ruling.
the bureau's internal investigation found that most agents bought a few dozen cartons of cigarettes into the island on the trip -- the majority ordering between 11 and 50 cartons.
around 100 others involved in presidential security who have bought cigarettes into taiwan reached deferred prosecution agreements in 2019 and last year.
taiwan's customs law limits travellers to a maximum of five cartons of cigarettes -- and only one can be tax-free.
aw/axnit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
america's #1 provider in hearing aids — featuring german technology & enhanced speech clarity.
secure your no-risk trial today!foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
we took a look at different incontinence underwear brands and created a list of our top 5 products going into this year.
did your brand make the list?several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
this small company behind it is sparking a potential 20,300% market surge.
click here for details.
moscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
(nytimes) it's probably never been easier to acknowledge that a lot of us work too much and too hard, and should take more time off.
indeed, the very idea of burnout seems to be having a cultural moment.
"if you think you're burned out, you're burned out.
and if you don't think you're burned out, you're burned out," jill lepore wrote recently in the new yorker.
to believe this is one thing, but to act on it is another.
for years, surveys have found that american workers tend not to use all of their vacation days.
and according to nordvpn teams, a provider of virtual private network technology that is important to remote work set-ups, the stay-at-home workforce created by lockdowns and office closures put in more hours on the job than before the pandemic.
your biggest obstacle to getting time off is probably you: it can be hard to give yourself that permission to do nothing when there's just so much to do.
consider, however, that amazon's founder and ceo jeff bezos has said he sets aside "puttering time" every morning before taking any calls or meetings basically carving out a scheduled chunk of do-nothing time.
are you really that much busier than him?the point isn't just that it's nice to goof off every so often it's that it's necessary.
and that's true even if your ultimate goal is doing better work: downtime allows the brain to make new connections and better decisions.
multiple studies have found that sustained mental attention without breaks is depleting, leading to inferior performance and decision-making.
in short, the prefrontal cortex where goal-oriented and executive-function thinking goes on can get worn down, potentially resulting in "decision fatigue".
a variety of research finds that even simple remedies like a walk in nature or a nap can replenish the brain and ultimately improve mental performance.
these findings aren't just limited to academic studies.
in his recent book richer, wiser, happier, veteran financial journalist william green draws on many hours of interviews with highly successful investors, and, as you'd expect, a recurring theme is that these people tend to work hard, and out-think, out-research and out-hustle the crowd.
but a counter-intuitive subtheme also emerges: how seriously his subjects tend to take breaks, time off and make space in their lives for definitive distance from the all-day, everyday 21st century work cycle.
many including mr charlie munger, mr warren buffett's long-time collaborator make a point to carve out time for quiet and contemplation.
for mr munger, that means ignoring up-to-the-second market news and crowd noise and instead exercising extreme patience.
for another one of green's interviewees, ms laura geritz, ceo at rondure global advisors, it means taking time to sit by a stream and journal.
developing "a regular meditation practice", green notes, has become "a mission-critical habit for many successful investors".
this isn't an afterthought or a hobby or a personal wellness tactic, green said.
it's a reflection of the "ruthless pragmatism" that made his subjects successful in the first place in the eternal hunt for an edge, they found their rest ethic.
it's almost a "counter-cultural" move, green said.
"i don't think you have deep thought without structuring your life this way," he said, at a time when everybody is constantly pinged and reacting to short-term stimuli.
the good news is that at least some companies are starting to take breaks seriously.
for starters, some are acknowledging that unlimited paid time off, a popular gesture among employers who have tried to address the issue, doesn't really do the trick, says john fitch, the author with max frenzel of the 2020 book time off.
it can end up feeling like just another responsibility, and nobody wants to be the employee who takes the most days off.
lately, companies including linkedin and roblox have experimented with mandatory vacation for all or most employees in the form of "spring break" periods.
actions like these that emphasise the value of time off represent a "profound" shift, fitch said.
he and frenzel, both tech entrepreneurs, are tinkering with a software tool that would help human resources departments prod workers to take days off.
still, those companies are outliers, and most of us will have to take the initiative on an individual level.
given the natural resistance to downtime that many of us evidently feel, it might make sense to start small find a gateway drug equivalent to taking time off.
or, to use fitch's related metaphor, try micro-dosing breaks.
one obvious place to start?
unplugging.
the dream of a weeks-long "digital detox" may not be practical, but consider the "technology shabbat" strategy taking one day a week off from technology promoted by writer and filmmaker tiffany shlain, most recently in her book 24/6.
for some, the advice to simply unplug or "do nothing" feels like a dead end; you need something to fill that space, or you just end up ruminating about work all over again.
fitch recommends an exercise called "more of, less of" periodically taking a chunk of time to list both what you want more of and less of in your life.
it's a "higher altitude" analysis to pull you out of the day-to-day rut of reacting to other people's stimuli and help you focus on what you need to create, and get rid of, in your life.
similarly, if you add to your routine a simple walk around the block to clear your head, make sure you really clear it.
spending the whole time checking social media and monitoring your step count is not a quality break.
leave your phone behind, and make a point to notice something new and different on every walk.
turning the walk into a game ensures that your mind is engaged with the world rather than brooding about the work you're supposedly taking a break from.
but wait don't such ideas sound kind of like another form of work?
more goal-oriented tasks intended to boost productivity in the long run?
is developing a rest ethic ultimately another job?
perhaps so.
but then again, maybe that's the only language the unhealthily work-obsessed really understand.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
this is the moment a gang mowed down a man twice in a brutal attack.
gang leader david 'porky' clark, 36, was driving a mercedes when he and his crew deliberately tried to run over the victim in ridley street, southwick, sunderland.
as the man tried to flee in a silver hatchback, clark and the driver of a volvo rammed the car and smashed into another parked vehicle.
he was hit twice by the cars and his vehicle rammed a further three times in the shocking attack on april 5, 2020. watch: moment gang repeatedly ran over man in brutal attackmoments later, clark – aided by shaun hewitt, shaun mcgregor and leigh coulson disarmed luke owen, who possessed a machete.
owen was then stabbed with the machete in the middle of the street, leaving him with serious leg injuries and cuts to his face.
earlier on the same evening, clark's girlfriend coulson threatened an occupant on the same street as the attack.
she told the victim he would be "burnt to a crisp" and said a car would be driven through his living room.
a vehicle was reversed into the front door of the address and set on fire later that night.
all five gang members, from sunderland, admitted a string of offences at newcastle crown court in february.
on friday ringleader clark was jailed for 44 months after he admitted assault, dangerous driving and violent disorder.
coulson, 33, pleaded guilty to violent disorder and threats to commit criminal damage by fire and received a 12-month suspended sentence.
hewitt, 29, mcgregor, 32, and owen, 34, all admitted violent disorder and owen also pleaded guilty to possession of an offensive weapon.
hewitt was jailed for one year, mcgregor was jailed for 15 months and owen received an 11-month sentence suspended for 12 months.
detective inspector andy richardson, of northumbria police, said: "the violence that we saw on the streets of southwick that night was appalling and all five defendants should be ashamed of themselves.
"the series of incidents unfolded in a residential area where families watched on in shock – and they will no doubt have been horrified to see this level of offending justyards from their front door.
"clark was at the centre of the disorder and is somebody who has consistently shown a total disregard for the law.
"i am pleased that he is now behind bars and the severity of his crimes reflected in his sentence.
"we will not tolerate violence in our communities and hope this outcome offers reassurance to our communities.
"we are committed to continue tackling serious and organised criminality.
"it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
 share copiedtop headlines â¢ countries should also avoid giving the astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine to people over 60, the head of the eu drug regulator ema's vaccine strategy has been quoted as saying, amid fears over rare blood clotting, and as more alternative vaccines become available.
â¢ marco cavaleri, who noted that incidents with the az vaccine were very rare and that the roll out appeared to be going well in the uk,  told italy's la stampa newspaper that the johnson & johnson jab should be preferentially used for the over 60s, afp reports.
â¢ italy stopped use of the az vaccine for people under the age 60 on saturday.
asked if it would not be better to ban it for all age groups, cavaleri is quoted as saying: "yes, and it is an option that many countries, such as france and germany, are considering in the light of the increased availability of mrna vaccines.
"â¢ germany's health ministry said johnson & johnson must deliver 6.
5 million vaccine doses to the country in july to make up for a shortfall expected in june.
the demand comes after the u. s.  food & drug administration told the company to dispose of millions of doses because of contamination concerns.
â¢ poland will further ease restrictions from sunday as infections drop across the country.
the government announced the new rules on friday cultural institutions like cinemas, theaters, and museums can reopen their food facilities in a limited capacity.
â¢ south korea will exempt some travelers who have received their vaccine shots overseas from its mandatory two-week quarantine starting july 1, health authorities said.
â¢ paris police said three people were detained after officers used tear-gas to disperse hundreds of youths gathered for a street party in defiance of social distancing limits and an 11:00 p. m.  curfew.
the parties have been called 'project x' by organizers.
â¢ the head of the world trade organization said there was a pathway for a global deal to get more vaccines to developing countries, despite a split over whether drug firms should give up their intellectual property rights.
â¢ a cluster of delta-variant covid-19 infections has been detected at an art school in the eastern french city of strasbourg, the regional health authority said on saturday.
the four cases, confirmed as the more contagious variant first detected in india, were found at the haute ecole des arts du rhin, which was closed by authorities on june 10 until further notice.
commuters, some wearing face masks, walk on a platform at moscow metro.
/afp/dimitar dilkoffacross europe russia russia, in particular moscow, is now embroiled in what could be another wave of the virus.
russia on sunday reported 14,723 new covid-19 cases, including 7,704 in moscow, the largest one-day national caseload since february 13. the number of new infections in moscow was the most reported in one day since december 24.  the city's mayor told residents on saturday to stay off work this coming week, if they can, to curb the spread of the virus.
the surge has been blamed in part on a vaccine-reluctant population, with some surveys suggesting that most russians do not want to take sputnik v despite trials and tests proving the vaccine effective and safe.
in a promising sign for the country's vaccination program, the scientist who led the development of sputnik v has tested a nasal spray form of its covid-19 vaccine.
the product is reportedly suitable for children aged 8-12 and could be launched in september.
g7 the g7 countries announced they would provide a billion covid-19 vaccine doses over the next year and work with the private sector, the g20, and other countries to increase the contribution over months to come, according to an almost finalized draft of the communique, seen by reuters.
the g7 said in the draft that the vaccine donations built on exports from domestic production with at least 700 million doses exported, or to be exported, this year, of which at least 50 percent have gone to non-g7 countries.
the group added that it had "a commitment to continue exporting in significant proportions, and the promotion of voluntary licensing and not-for-profit global production, which has so far accounted for 95 percent of the covax supply," the communique said.
the covax facility, backed by the world health organization and the global alliance for vaccines and immunization, aims to secure 2 billion vaccine doses for lower-income countries by the end of 2021. a person in mexico participates in the first in-person lgbt+ pride march.
/afp/ulises ruiz guy henderson, londona maximum 22,500 fans are allowed in wembley stadium as england begin their euro 2020 campaign in north london.
as with all major sporting competitions, teams are tightly bubbled.
and anyone entering the stadium fan, journalist, volunteer, or support staff will need to show proof of full vaccination or a negative lateral flow test.
the uk has one of the most advanced vaccination programs globally, yet the danger, it seems, of going backward in terms of easing restrictions has still not entirely subsided.
reports continue to circulate that prime minister boris johnson will, on monday, announce a delay of up to four weeks for the final easing of most, if not all, legally binding restrictions penciled for june 21.  that could have implications for the largest sporting competition since the start of the pandemic.
wembley will host one of the semi-finals, and then the final itself on july 11. hopes of a fully-packed stadium look increasingly remote.
rahul pathak in madridthousands of supporters of the far-right vox party are expected to match against spain's socialist-led government in madrid on saturday.
officially protesting against the possible pardon of leaders of the catalan separatist movement, the protest is a show of force by various right-wing spanish movements, partly galvanized by their opposition to the government's handling the coronavirus crisis.
joining the vox party are the supporters and politicians from the more moderate popular party.
their leader pablo casado is riding high in the polls right now and he's hoping the protests will increase the pressure on spanish prime minister pedro sanchez.
however, many in casado's party say they attend today's march as they don't want to share a platform with the extremist vox.
from our global colleaguescgtn europe: the backward running champion trying to conquer the italian alpscgtn china: china plans to launch a mars sample-return mission around 2030cgtn america: the roots of migration series cgtn africa: record number of refugees, migrants returned to libya un sign up here to get the covid-19 europe bulletin sent directly to your inbox.
cgtn europe has been providing in-depth coverage of the novel coronavirus story as it has unfolded.
copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3copyright â© 2020 cgtn.
beijing icp prepared no.
16065310-3
europe's drug regulator on friday (june 11) identified another very rare blood condition as a potential side effect of astrazeneca's covid-19 vaccine and said it was looking into cases of heart inflammation after inoculation with all coronavirus shots.
the european medicines agency's (ema) safety committee said that capillary leak syndrome (cls) must be added as a new side effect to labelling on astrazeneca's vaccine, known as vaxzevria.
people who had previously sustained the condition, where fluids leak from the smallest blood vessels causing swelling and a drop in blood pressure, should not receive the shot, the ema added.
the regulator first began looking into these cases in april and the recommendation adds to astrazeneca's woes after its vaccine was associated with very rare and potentially lethal cases of blood clotting that come with a low platelet count.
last month, the ema had advised against giving a second astrazeneca shot to people with that clotting condition, known as thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (tts).
the committee reviewed six validated cases of cls in people, mostly women, who had received vaxzevria, including one death.
three had a history of the condition.
more than 78 million vaxzevria doses have been administered in the european union, liechtenstein, iceland & norway and britain.
in a statement, astrazeneca pointed to the extreme rarity of cls cases, at less than 1 in 10 million vaccinated individuals.
"we are working actively, in collaboration with regulatory authorities, on risk minimization measures.
.
.
that includes information to those being vaccinated.
.
.
information to drive early diagnosis and intervention, and appropriate treatment," the company said.
britain's regulator, the mhra said it was considering precautionary advice for people with a history of cls but does not see a causal link with the vaccine.
two of eight reports of capillary leak syndrome following astrazeneca vaccination in the uk were in people with a history of the condition, and 40 million doses of the vaccine had been given, it said.
separately, the ema said it was continuing its probe into cases of heart inflammation known as myocarditis and pericarditis, primarily following inoculation with the pfizer/biontech, and moderna mrna shots, but also after the j&j and astrazeneca vaccines.
u. s.  health officials said on thursday they had registered a higher-than-expected number of heart inflammation cases in young men who received a second dose of the mrna shots, though a causal relationship could not be established.
israel's health ministry said this month it had found a likely link to the condition in young men who received the pfizer/biontech shot.
both pfizer and moderna have acknowledged the observations but said a causal association with their vaccines has not been established.
biontech said adverse events, including myocarditis and pericarditis, are being regularly and thoroughly reviewed by the companies and regulatory authorities.
"more than 300 million doses of the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine have been administered globally and the benefit risk profile of our vaccine remains positive.
"the united states and israel have been months ahead of the eu in vaccinating men below 30, who are particularly prone to heart inflammation, giving them potentially more cases to analyse.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington • russian president vladimir putin, in an interview with nbc news ahead of his meeting with us president joe biden this week, said relations between the two countries are at their lowest point in years.
mr putin and mr biden will meet in geneva on wednesday.
the white house has said mr biden will bring up ransomware attacks emanating from russia, moscow's aggression against ukraine, the jailing of dissidents and other issues that have been soured the relationship.
"we have a bilateral relationship that has deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years," mr putin said, according to an nbc translation of excerpts of an interview broadcast on friday.
he praised former president donald trump and said mr biden, as a career politician, was "radically different" from mr trump, but also voiced hope that the new us leader will be less impulsive than his predecessor.
"it is my great hope that, yes, there are some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements on behalf of the sitting us president," he said.
"i believe that former us president trump is an extraordinary individual, talented individual.
.
.
he is a colourful individual.
you may like him or not.
but he didn't come from the us establishment," mr putin was quoted as saying.
mr biden plans to raise a range of us complaints, including over purported interference in american elections and hacking by russia, in the summit with mr putin, at the end of the new us president's first foreign trip.
mr putin had openly admitted that in the 2016 vote he supported mr trump, who had voiced admiration for the russian leader and notoriously, at their first summit, appeared to accept his denials of election interference.
asked about mr biden calling him a killer in an interview in march, mr putin said he had heard dozens of such accusations.
"this is not something i worry about in the least," mr putin said.
he added that the term "killer" was part of "macho behaviour" common in hollywood.
such discourse "is part of us political culture where it's considered normal.
by the way, not here, it is not considered normal here", the russian president said.
mr biden, at the start of an eight-day visit to europe this week, said: "we're not seeking conflict with russia.
""we want a stable and predictable relationship.
.
.
but i've been clear: the united states will respond in a robust and meaningful way if the russian government engages in harmful activities.
"mr putin was asked about several russian dissidents whose deaths have been blamed on moscow, including former kgb spy alexander litvinenko who was poisoned in 2006. the russian leader dismissed the question as "verbal indigestion".
he said some of those responsible for the deaths are in prison.
on the issue of recent ransomware attacks that the us has traced to russia, mr putin denied any knowledge of the hackings and called on mr biden to reach an agreement with him on cyberspace, nbc news said.
mr putin also dismissed a report in the washington post last week that russia was preparing to supply iran with an advanced satellite that would enable it to track potential military targets across the middle east.
"it's just fake news.
at the very least, i don't know anything about this kind of thing," mr putin said, according to nbc news.
"it's just nonsense garbage.
"reuters, agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
jerusalem: naftali bennett, who was sworn in sunday (jun 13) asisrael's new prime minister, embodies many of the contradictions that define the 73-year-old nation.
he's a religious jew who made millions in the mostly secular hi-tech sector; a champion of the settlement movement who lives in a tel aviv suburb; a former ally of benjamin netanyahu who has partnered with centrist and left-wing parties to end his 12-year rule.
his ultranationalist yamina party won just seven seats in the 120-member knesset in march elections the fourth such vote in two years.
but by refusing to commit to netanyahu or his opponents, bennett positioned himself as kingmaker.
even after one member of his religious nationalist party abandoned him to protest the new coalition deal, he ended up with the crown.
here's a look at israel's next leader:an ultranationalist with a moderate coalitionbennett has long positioned himself to the right of netanyahu.
but he will be severely constrained by his unwieldy coalition, which has only a narrow majority in parliament and includes parties from the right, left and centre.
he is opposed to palestinian independence and strongly supports jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem, which the palestinians and much of the international community see as a major obstacle to peace.
bennett fiercely criticised netanyahu after the prime minister agreed to slow settlement construction under pressure from president barack obama, who tried and failed to revive the peace process early in his first term.
he briefly served as head of the west bank settler's council, yesha, before entering the knesset in 2013.  bennett later served as cabinet minister of diaspora affairs, education and defence in various netanyahu-led governments.
"he's a right-wing leader, a security hard-liner, but at the same time very pragmatic," said yohanan plesner, head of the israel democracy institute, who has known bennett for decades and served with him in the military.
he expects bennett to engage with other factions to find a "common denominator" as he seeks support and legitimacy as a national leader.
rivalry with netanyahuthe 49-year-old father of four shares netanyahu's hawkish approach to the middle east conflict, but the two have had tense relations over the years.
bennett served as netanyahu's chief of staff for two years, but they parted ways after a mysterious falling out that israeli media linked to netanyahu's wife, sara, who wields great influence over her husband's inner circle.
bennett campaigned as a right-wing stalwart ahead of the march elections and signed a pledge on national tv saying he would never allow yair lapid, a centrist and netanyahu's main rival, to become prime minister.
but when it became clear netanyahu was unable to form a ruling coalition, that's exactly what bennett did, agreeing to serve as prime minister for two years before handing power to lapid, the architect of the new coalition.
netanyahu's supporters have branded bennett a traitor, saying he defrauded voters.
bennett has defended his decision as a pragmatic move aimed at unifying the country and avoiding a fifth round of elections.
a generational shiftbennett, a modern orthodox jew, will be israel's first prime minister who regularly wears a kippa, the skullcap worn by observant jews.
he lives in the upscale tel aviv suburb of raanana, rather than the settlements he champions.
bennett began life with his american-born parents in haifa, then bounced with his family between north america and israel, military service, law school and the private sector.
throughout, he's curated a persona that's at once modern, religious and nationalist.
after serving in the elite sayeret matkal commando unit, bennett went to law school at hebrew university.
in 1999, he co-founded cyota, an anti-fraud software company that was sold in 2005 to us-based rsa security for us$145 million.
bennett has said the bitter experience of israel's 2006 war against the lebanese militant group hezbollah drove him to politics.
the monthlong war ended inconclusively, and israel's military and political leadership at the time was widely criticised as bungling the campaign.
bennett represents a third generation of israeli leaders, after the founders of the state and netanyahu's generation, which came of age during the country's tense early years marked by repeated wars with arab states.
"he's israel 3.
0," anshel pfeffer, a columnist for israel's left-leaning haaretz newspaper, wrote in a recent profile of bennett.
"a jewish nationalist but not really dogmatic.
a bit religious, but certainly not devout.
a military man who prefers the comforts of civilian urban life and a high-tech entrepreneur who isn't looking to make any more millions.
a supporter of the greater land of israel but not a settler.
and he may well not be a lifelong politician either.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
while the pinnacle @ duxton is arguably the "poster boy" for million-dollar housing board flats in singapore, such flats are not exclusively located in the central area.
half of singapore's 24 housing board towns are home to million-dollar hdb flats, official hdb data shows.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
(bloomberg) -- treasury yields edged higher monday as investors prepared for a key federal reserve meeting later in the week.
stocks were mixed in thin trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
46% after hitting three-month lows on thursday and notching their biggest weekly slide since december last week.
stocks saw modest gains in japan and a drop in south korea.
trading volumes were light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were little changed after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields trending downward, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped over the weekend after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
oil futures advanced.
for market commentary, follow the mliv blog.
here are some key events to watch this week:nato holds a summit on mondayan eu-u.
s.  summit takes place in brussels on tuesdaydata on u. s.  industrial production, producer prices and retail sales come tuesdaythe federal open market committee rate decision comes on wednesday, with a news conference from jerome powell afteru.
s.  president joe biden and russia's vladimir putin meet wednesday in genevau.
s.  treasury secretary janet yellen testifies before a house panel thursday on the federal budgetrate decisions come from switzerland and norway on thursdaythe bank of japan's monetary policy decision is on fridaythese are some of the main moves in markets:stockss&p 500 futures rose 0.
1% as of 11:50 a. m.  in tokyo.
the benchmark climbed 0.
2% to a record high friday.
japan's topix index gained 0.
3%.
south korea's kospi index fell 0.
1%.
currenciesthe bloomberg dollar spot index was steady.
the euro slid 0.
1% to $1.
2100. the british pound was steady at $1.
4113. the japanese yen gained 0.
1% to 109.
75 per dollar.
bondsthe yield on 10-year treasuries advanced about one basis point to 1.
46%.
commoditieswest texas intermediate crude rose 0.
5% to $71.
25 per barrel.
gold fell 0.
6% to $1,866.
17 an ounce.
more stories like this are available on bloomberg.
comsubscribe now to stay ahead with the most trusted business news source.
©2021 bloomberg l. p. global shares held firm near record highs on monday while u. s.  bond yields flirted with three-month lows as investors expect the federal reserve to stick to its dovish mantra later this week.
globally, equity markets were basking in the prospects of a broadening economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and anticipation of continuity in dovish monetary policy from the u. s.  federal reserve.
the msci all-country world equity index, the u. s.  s&p 500 and the pan-regional stoxx europe 600 index all closed at record highs on friday.
two americans suspected of helping former nissan chairman carlos ghosn flee japan while he was out on bail go on trial monday in tokyo.
michael taylor, a former green beret, and his son peter taylor are suspected in the houdini-like operation where ghosn hid in a box for music equipment that was loaded onto a private jet that flew him to lebanon, via turkey in december 2019.   unlike the u. s. , lebanon has no extradition treaty with japan.
singer-songwriter david archuleta revealed on saturday that he is part of the lgbtqia+ community, talking about how he's grappled with his sexual identity, in relation to his mormon faith.
"i've been open to myself and my close family for some years now that i am not sure about my own sexuality," the former american idol finalist [.
.
.
]buying a stock is easy, but purchasing the right stock without a proven strategy is incredibly hard.
here are the best robinhood stocks to buy now.
there is also possibility for a broad valuation reset lower for stocks in the months ahead.
few stocks meet my criteria for selection today.
now i want to first look back and then look forward (and expand upon monday's views) in light of the calendar and the near culmination of the first six months of the year, and the launch of my new hedge fund, seabreeze capital partners lp later this month.
four nhl teams have overcome 3-0 deficits in a best-of-seven playoff series, including the 1942 stanley cup champion toronto maple leafs.
the denver nuggets are the 143rd nba team to go down 3-0 in a best-of-seven playoff series and nobody's ever overcome such a daunting deficit to win four straight.
the nuggets say their only aim is to send the series back to phoenix with a win in game 4 sunday night in denver.
(bloomberg) -- staring at a meme stock craze that shows few signs of abating, wall street is still wrestling with how to trade it.
many traders scroll through reddit blogs that cheer on day traders to suss out the next big thing.
others obsessively track stocktwits citations.
there are even firms hiring wallstreetbets veterans to get inside the heads of the people who call themselves apes with diamond hands.
the stakes are high.
meme stocks like amc entertainment holdings inc.  and gamestop corp.  hin this article we discuss the 10 undervalued blue chip stocks hedge funds are piling into.
if you want to skip our detailed analysis of these stocks, go directly to the 5 undervalued blue chip stocks hedge funds are piling into.
the stock volatility of the past few months has illustrated that the market is [.
.
.
]by this time next year, we cannot have passed the milestone five-year anniversary of grenfell with people still living in unsafe homesthe inter milan midfielder stumbled to the turf towards the end of the first half against finland at the parken stadium in copenhagenteenager devonte brown was charged with conspiracy to commit murder over the shooting of black lives matter activistthe social security administration announced that the cost-of-living adjustment (cola), which is an increase in social security benefits to counteract inflation, increased by 1.
3% for 70 million.
.
.
prices of the world's no.
1 crypto on sunday trade sharply higher after digital-asset bull elon musk says tesla would resume allowing transactions at the vehicle-maker's stores when key members of bitcoin infrastructure can confirm that 50% of the energy used to mine for bitcoin is derived from clean energy sources.
(bloomberg) -- after the longest rally in almost a year, the treasury market is ill-positioned for any surprises from the federal reserve next week.
bond investors, who have been abandoning short bets, are anticipating that officials will reaffirm that their ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering the central bank's purchases of treasury and mortgage-backed securities.
any hint that such discussions are in the works could provide a rude a(bloomberg) -- trying to keep up with the frenzied rise of so-called meme stocks might feel a bit like playing a game of whack-a-mole, bewildering analysts and investors alike.
while there's no steadfast definition of what constitutes a meme stock, one common thread across the many names being pitched on social media is a focus on heavily shorted companies.
shares of reddit icon gamestop corp.  jumped as much as 2,500% in january after day traders noticed its short interest had ballooned to record(bloomberg) -- follow @crypto twitter for the latest news.
bitcoin jumped above $39,000 after elon musk said tesla inc.  would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining is done with more clean energy.
the electric-car maker will allow bitcoin transactions again "when there's confirmation of reasonable (~50%) clean energy usage by miners with positive future trend," musk, tesla's chief executive officer, said in a tweet.
his posting was in reply to a report in cointelegraph, which citedthe classic mix of stocks and bonds may be a relic of an age long past.
wages are soaring and jobs opening are at record highs as workers feel empowered to put a price on their dignity.
let's talk about growth stocks.
these are stocks that have shown strong and sustained share price appreciation, sometimes ranging into triple-digit gains over the course of a year or more.
in short, these are stocks that make investors say, "if only i'd bought in when.
.
.
!"
there's no point dwelling on the past.
a savvy investor, aiming to build a growth-oriented portfolio, will set up a profile for a solid growth stock, and look to match it.
the factors to look for: that strong appreciation we menusing technical analysis of the charts of those stocks, and, when appropriate, recent actions and grades from thestreet's quant ratings, we zero in on five names.
while we will not be weighing in with fundamental analysis, we hope this piece will give investors interested in stocks on the way down a good starting point to do further homework on the names.
workhorse group inc.   recently was downgraded to sell with a d rating by thestreet's quant ratings.
green campaigners and anti-poverty groups say cornwall summit failed to address challenges facing the world last modified on sun 13 jun 2021 18.
59 edtboris johnson has sought to defend the deal struck by g7 leaders at the cornwall summit, as green groups and anti-poverty campaigners said the rich nations' club had failed to match the scale of the challenges facing the world.
the final communique contained no early timetable to eradicate coal-fired emissions, offered only 1bn extra coronavirus vaccines for the world's poor over the next 12 months and made no new binding commitments to challenge china's human rights abuses.
campaigners expressed profound disappointment at the failure to attach new cash to the communique's aspirations to end the pandemic, "build back better" and tackle the climate emergency.
oxfam's head of inequality policy, max lawson, said: "never in the history of the g7 has there been a bigger gap between their actions and the needs of the world.
we don't need to wait for history to judge this summit a colossal failure, it is plain for all to see.
"british officials said the task of a g7 summit was to set out a policy roadmap rather than make binding, detailed financial commitments, which are more likely to be made at the g20 or at the un climate change summit in november.
the former uk prime minister gordon brown said the g7's 2021 summit would be remembered "only for a colossal failure to honour boris johnston's promise to vaccinate the world, an unforgivable moral failure when covid is destroying lives at the rate of one-third of a million every month".
he echoed the world health organization's view that the g7 had needed to commit to distribute 11bn vaccines, and not just 1bn.
he said he was also disappointed the group had not supported compulsory patent transfers to boost production in africa.
johnson said at the close of the summit that he hoped it had lived up to the optimistic hopes and predictions.
he knew "the world was looking to us to reject some of the selfishness and the nationalistic approaches that marred the initial early responses to the pandemic, and channel all our economic and scientific might into defeating covid", he said.
he rejected brown's criticisms, saying the g7 had set a target to vaccinate the whole world by the end of the year.
he said of the 1.
5bn vaccines around the world, 500m were the result of the uk government's deal with oxford/astrazeneca.
the shadow foreign secretary, lisa nandy, said: "by every measure, the prime minister's summit has come up short.
no clear plan to vaccinate the world by the end of 2022.  no ambitious commitments to place the world on the path to climate safety.
"this should have been the summit that delivered health, environmental and economic security for people in britain and across the world.
"with less than six months until cop 26, the government must raise the ambition and work constructively with countries across the world to deliver for people in britain and around the world.
"joe biden said the us was back at the table, and that washington might be able to find a further 1bn doses next year.
fighting pandemics "may be a constant project for a long time," the us president said.
the one campaign, however, said the who and other major multilateral bodies had set the g7 clear targets before the summit, which it had not met.
the who called at the weekend for 70% of the global population to be vaccinated by time of the g7's next summit in germany next year.
but one said the money would only "provide enough doses to vaccinate around 200 million people .
.
.
by the end of the year.
by the next g7 summit only 10.
3% of the population in low and medium income countries would be vaccinated by this deal.
"johnson also came under attack over the climate crisis.
green groups said the g7 had agreed "to plan to make a plan".
johnson said the g7 was committed to the net zero emissions target by 2050, and had made significant steps towards the pledge of $100bn a year in climate finance for developing countries first made at the copenhagen summit.
but greenpeace uk's executive director, john sauven, said: "despite the green soundbites, boris johnson has simply reheated old promises and peppered his plan with hypocrisy, rather than taking real action to tackle the climate and nature emergency.
"the us was unable to secure a g7 consensus on china, but instead put out a separate statement on the use of forced labour in xinjiang.
the final communique made reference to keeping the taiwan strait open, the loss of democracy in hong kong and "called on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang".
some g7 leaders, notably germany's angela merkel, cautioned against alienating china at a time when beijing's help is needed to tackle climate change.
biden defended the commitments.
"we are in a contest not with china per se but with autocrats around the world, and whether democracies can compete them in a rapidly changing world," he said.
he called for a further inquiry into the origins of the pandemic, saying "it is important to know if this is due to a trial that went awry in a laboratory.
we have not had access to their laboratories.
"johnson said his official advice had been that it was unlikely the virus had spread from a leak in a chinese lab, but that "anyone sensible would keep an open mind about it".
asked about him being more ideologically in tune with donald trump than biden, johnson said there were ideological similarities between his plans to level up and the democrat's us infrastructure programme.
the summit marked the return of in-person diplomacy after a near two-year hiatus and the departure of trump's chaotic style that effectively brought the g7 to a standstill.
merkel praised biden, saying he had brought new momentum to the g7's efforts to tackle global challenges.
"it's not like the world no longer has any problems because of the election of joe biden as us president," she told reporters.
"but we can work on solutions to those problems with new momentum.
and i think it's very good that we have become more concrete at this g7. "

                    monday, 14 jun 2021
                a man get his temperature and blood pressure readings taken before receiving the sinovac vaccine against the covid-19 coronavirus, during an immunisation session for bus drivers in banda aceh on june 11, 2021.   afpjakarta (the straits times/ann): jakarta governor anies baswedan has warned that the indonesian capital may return to a strict restriction regime as coronavirus cases surged 50 per cent in the past week.
active cases in jakarta rose to 17, 400 cases on sunday (june 13) from 11, 500 on june 6.
"the capital is in a state that needs extra attention.
if the current situation gets out of hand, we would enter an emergency phase, and if that happened, we would have to take drastic steps like we did in september and february.
we do not want that to recur," anies said in a statement on monday morning.
the delta variant, first detected in india, has started to dominate cases in indonesian cities including jakarta and kudus in central java province, a senior government official, who did not want to be named, told the straits times on sunday night.
health ministry spokesman dr siti nadia tarmizi told st that the genome sequencing tests on 34 samples collected from kudus showed that 28 of them were of the delta variant.
she did not elaborate.
bed occupancy rate for isolation wards reserved to treat covid-19 patients also increased to 75 per cent on sunday, from 45 per cent a week ago.
one out of four covid-19 patients in jakarta, however comes from outside the city, mostly the surrounding satellite towns.
anies urged residents to strictly comply with health protocols in order to avoid another round of strict social distancing restrictions.
currently, dining-in in eateries are allowed with limited capacity and non-essential staff are partially required to work from home.
the governor also stressed that the positivity rate the percentage of people who are tested positive in jakarta increased to 17 per cent on sunday, from 9 per cent the previous week.
he also pointed out that the testing rate in jakarta rose to eight times what the world health organisation recommended, from four times in the previous week.
anies ordered all his personnel on sunday night to take stricter measures and step up enforcement of the health protocols on individuals as well as in places.
the straits times/asia news network 
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                delta
                                                                ,
                                                                                                variant



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there have been 157 reports here of suspected reactions to the covid-19 vaccine severe enough to be life-threatening or result in hospitalisation, among other serious conditions.
however, no deaths have been linked to the jab, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
these "suspected serious adverse events" made up 0.
004 per cent of the almost 3.
7 million doses of pfizer-biontech and moderna jabs administered till may 23. these serious cases form part of the 4,704 "suspected adverse events reports" that hsa received till may 23. this translates into 0.
13 per cent of administered doses, which is consistent with the percentage that had been reported by the authority on may 6, when it last gave an update on the safety record of both mrna vaccines on may 6. these reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but may not have been caused by them.
an adverse event  or reaction related to vaccination is any undesirable medical condition that occurs after taking the vaccine, which does not necessarily have a direct link to the treatment.
they may be coincidental or related to an undiagnosed disease, but have to be reported by healthcare providers to hsa.
reactions are considered serious if they result in hospitalisation, disability or life-threatening illnesses, among other things.
anaphylaxis, which is the rapid onset of severe allergic reactions, was the most frequently reported serious adverse event, with 26 such cases.
all of them recovered after medical treatment, hsa said.
it added that the incidence rate of anaphylaxis reported here with the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines is about 0.
85 cases for every 100,000 doses of the jabs administered.
"this is similar to the incidence rates reported overseas of around 0.
5 to two per 100,000 doses administered," said hsa.
other severe allergic reactions numbered 23.  these include breathing difficulty, fast heart rate, an increase or decrease in blood pressure, chest discomfort and pain, fainting, limb numbness and weakness or pain, changes in vision, increase in liver enzymes, joint pain, fits, ringing in the ears and infections.
the authority said most of those who had developed serious adverse events have recovered or are recovering.
"these serious adverse events are being closely monitored by hsa," it added.
hsa said that the most commonly reported reactions are consistent with those typically observed following vaccination.
from the 4,704 reactions, the most common one was cases of rash, which accounted for more than one in four reported adverse events.
this was followed by cases of swelling of eyelids, face or lips, which occurred in about one in seven cases.
these are typically resolved within a few days and are in line with the events described in the covid-19 vaccines product information, as well as those reported overseas.
most of adverse events were associated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine, which was rolled out for use here on dec 30 last year and comprised 83 per cent of the doses administered.
moderna was deployed on march 12 this year.
about 68 per cent of the total number of reactions reported was among people below the age of 60. hsa pointed out that trials of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines found that those younger than 60 tend to experience more adverse effects occurring soon after vaccination, compared with those older.
generally, younger people have more active immune responses and may experience more adverse effects to the vaccines, said hsa.
it pointed out that this is part of the body's natural response to build immunity against covid-19 infection.
the authority added that 64 per cent of these reactions were reported in females.
its update also noted that a greater frequency of heart attacks and strokes has not been observed in vaccinated persons locally.
this comes after it was announced on friday that six people have been reported to have suffered heart inflammation after receiving covid-19 vaccines four of whom were men aged below 30. as a precaution, experts have advised that vaccinated people, especially adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"it is important to note that heart attacks and strokes can occur naturally within our population, regardless of whether people are vaccinated or not," said hsa.
"due to the large numbers of people being vaccinated, it is expected that, by coincidence, some individuals may experience other medical events such as heart attacks and strokes in the days or weeks after vaccination which may not be related to the vaccination.
"hsa said it is monitoring the incidence of anaphylaxis and bell's palsy, which are adverse events historically reported with vaccines.
there have been 45 reported cases of bell's palsy, which causes temporary weakness or paralysis of facial muscles.
most of the cases were not serious, hsa said, and patients will generally have completely recovery even without treatment.
the incidence rate for this reaction in singapore is estimated to be 3.
35 per 100,000 persons per month.
hsa said that this is within the background incidence of 1.
1 to 4.
4 per 100,000 persons per month before the introduction of vaccination.
the authority said that it, along with the ministry of health, will continue to monitor the safety of covid-19 vaccines closely and update the public on any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic, hsa added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: singapore reported 10 new covid-19 cases in the community as of noon on sunday (jun 13), including two unlinked infections.
eight were linked to previous cases, with five already in quarantine and three detected through surveillance, said the ministry of health (moh).
two new clusters were identified, with one involving cases linked to bukit merah view market and food centre.
bukit merah view market clusterfour of the linked community cases worked at 115 bukit merah view market and food centre, which will be closed from jun 13 to jun 15 for deep cleaning and to "break any potential chain of transmission", said moh.
all staff and tenants who had been working at the market from may 25 were placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine, said the ministry.
there will also be special testing operations for staff who had been working at 116 bukit merah view from may 25.
"we will also extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between may 25 and jun 12," said moh.
all visitors to the two locations between those dates were advised to monitor their health closely and minimise social interactions as far as possible for 14 days from the date of their visit, said moh.
they should see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell, it added.
all four cases were placed on quarantine earlier as they were identified as close contacts of case 64132, a 74-year-old worker at a sundry store in the market who was confirmed to have covid-19 on jun 9. the new cases involved a 50-year-old bangladeshi man who is a conservancy worker employed by theng liang lee services (case 64187) and a 72-year-old singaporean man working at a sundry shop (case 64193).
two food stall vendors were also among the cases a 67-year-old singaporean woman (case 64195) and a 65-year-old singaporean man (case 64196).
their infections were detected when they tested positive for covid-19 during quarantine.
all were asymptomatic, except for case 64193.  he developed a runny nose on jun 13 while on quarantine, after his covid-19 result came back positive.
cases 64193, 64195 and 64196 were fully vaccinated.
moh said it was investigating six cases of covid-19 infection among individuals working at the market.
they were the four new cases on sunday, case 64132 and case 64158 an 82 year-old singaporean woman who regularly helped out at a sundry store there.
"our epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location," said moh.
new cluster linked to engineeranother new cluster comprising an unlinked community case and two linked community cases was identified on sunday.
the unlinked case, case 64184, was a 27-year-old indian engineer working at ecoxplore.
he was tested for covid-19 on jun 10 as part of rostered routine testing.
he developed fever that same day.
the man's pooled test result came back positive on jun 11, and an individual test confirmed his infection on jun 12.  his serology test was negative.
the two linked community cases were his household contacts and detected through surveillance.
one was a 19-year-old singaporean teenager working as a warehouse assistant at dhl express (singapore).
she developed a fever, sore throat, cough and runny nose on jun 10 and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic on jun 11, where she received an antigen rapid test (art) and polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive, and her pcr test result also came back positive that same day.
her serology test result was negative.
the other linked case was a 39-year-old woman employed by cleen first services as a cleaner at emerald park condominium.
she developed a fever on jun 11 and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic on jun 12, where she was given an art and a pcr test.
her art result came back positive and she was immediately isolated.
her pcr test result came back positive that same day.
her serology test result was negative.
unlinked case involving nursing aidethe second unlinked community case was a 23-year-old indian nursing aide working at all saints home (hougang), a nursing home for the elderly.
he was asymptomatic, and his infection was detected when he was tested for covid-19 on jun 11 as part of the nursing home's surveillance testing for staff members.
his pooled test result came back positive on jun 11.  an individual test done that same day came back negative on jun 11, but another done on jun 12 came back positive.
"his ct value was very high, which is indicative of a low viral load, and his serology test result is positive," said moh.
"he is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus rna from a past infection, which are no longer transmissible and infective to others, but we have taken all necessary public health actions.
"the nursing aide was fully vaccinated.
remaining linked casesa 59-year-old singaporean woman working as a part-time cleaner at crystal lodge was reported as a linked community case.
she was a close contact of case 64135, apromoter at guardian at ion orchard.
the new case was already placed on quarantine on jun 11.  she was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she was tested for covid-19 on jun 12 during quarantine, with the result coming back positive the next day.
her serology test result was pending.
the other linked community case was detected through surveillance.
the 66-year-old singaporean retiree was a family member of case 64183, alandscape gardener at amozonialandscape.
he developed a cough on jun 11 and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner clinic on the same day, where he underwent both an art and pcr test.
his art result was negative, but his pcr test result came back positive on jun 12.  his serology test result was pending.
new locations visited by community casesbukit merah view food centre and market, where the new cluster was identified, and beo crescent market were on sunday added to a list of public places visited by covid-19 community cases during their infectious period.
mustafa centre, peninsula plaza, an ntuc fairprice supermarket at havelock road and a hair salon at upper serangoon road were also listed.
the full list of new locations is as follows:imported casesthere were also three imported cases, who had been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
two were permanent residents returning from india, and one was a foreign domestic worker who arrived from indonesia.
no new infections were reported in migrant workers' dormitories.
in all, singapore reported 13 new covid-19 cases on sunday.
one still in critical conditionthirty-one more cases were discharged, bringing the total number of fully recovered to 61,869. there were 130 cases in hospital, with one in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 243 were isolated and cared for at community facilities.
overall, the number of new cases in the community decreased from 116 cases in the week before to 36 cases in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community also decreased from 17 cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week.
among the 80 confirmed cases reported from jun 7 to jun 13, 44 cases tested positive for their serology tests, 27 tested negative and nine serology test results were pending.
phased easing of covid-19 curbs from jun 14singapore will move to phase 3 (heightened alert)in two steps from monday after a fall in the number of covid-19 community cases, said moh on jun 10. the limit on group sizes for social gatherings will be increased from two to five people from monday.
similarly, five distinct visitors per household daily will be allowed.
more restrictions will be eased in the second step from jun 21, when dining in can resume if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming week.
as of sunday, singapore has reported 62,276 covid-19 cases and 34 fatalities.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
jerusalem: israel's parliament on sunday (jun 13) narrowly approved a new coalition government, ending the historic 12-year rule of prime minister benjamin netanyahu and sending the polarising leader into the opposition.
naftali bennett,a former ally of netanyahu turned rival, became prime minister after the 60-59 vote.
promising to try to heal a divided nation, bennett will preside over a diverse and fragile coalition comprised of eight parties with deep ideological differences.
but the 71-year-old netanyahu made clear he has no intention of exiting the political stage.
"if it is destined for us to be in the opposition, we will do it with our backs straight until we topple this dangerous government and return to lead the country," he said.
the vote, capping a stormy parliamentary session, ended a two-year cycle of political paralysis in which the country held four deadlocked elections.
those votes focused largely on netanyahu's divisive rule and his fitness to remain in office while on trial for corruption charges.
to his supporters, netanyahu is a global statesman uniquely capable of leading the country through its many security challenges.
but to his critics, he has become a polarising and autocratic leader who used divide-and-rule tactics to aggravate the many rifts in israeli society.
those include tensions between jews and arabs, and within the jewish majority between his religious and nationalist base and his more secular and dovish opponents.
outside the knesset, hundreds of protesters watching the vote on a large screen erupted into applause when the new government was approved.
thousands of people, many waving israeli flags, gathered in central tel aviv's rabin square to celebrate.
president joe biden quickly congratulated the new government.
"i look forward to working with prime minister bennett to strengthen all aspects of the close and enduring relationship between our two nations," he said in a statement after a g7 meeting in england wrapped up.
he said his administration is fully committed to working with the new government "to advance security, stability, and peace for israelis, palestinians, and people throughout the broader region.
"bennett tweeted: "thank you mr president!
i look forward to working with you to strengthen the ties between our two nations.
"much of the opposition to netanyahu was personal.
three of the eight parties in the new government, including bennett's yamina, are headed by former netanyahu allies who share his hard-line ideology but had deep personal disputes with him.
bennett, 49, is a former chief of staff to netanyahu whose small party is popular with religious jews and west bank settlers.
as he addressed the raucous debate, he was repeatedly heckled and shouted down by netanyahu's supporters accusing him of betrayal.
bennett, an observant jew, noted that the ancient jewish people twice lost their homeland in biblical times due to bitter infighting.
"this time, at the decisive moment, we have taken responsibility," he said.
"to continue on in this way more elections, more hatred, more vitriolic posts on facebook is just not an option.
therefore we stopped the train, a moment before it barrelled into the abyss.
"bennett, a millionaire former high-tech entrepreneur, faces a tough test maintaining an unwieldy coalition of parties from the political right, left and centre.
the coalition, including a small islamist faction that is making history as the first arab party to sit in a coalition, agree on little beyond their opposition to netanyahu.
they are likely to pursue a modest agenda that seeks to reduce tensions with the palestinians and maintain good relations with the us without launching any major initiatives.
"we will forge forward on that which we agree and there is much we agree on, transport, education and so on, and what separates us we will leave to the side," bennett said.
he also promised a "new page" in relations with israel's arab sector.
israel's arab citizens make up about 20 per cent of the population, but have suffered from discrimination, poverty and lack of opportunities.
netanyahu has often tried portray arab politicians as terrorist sympathisers, though he also courted the same arab party in a failed effort to remain in power after mar 23 elections.
bennett, who like netanyahu opposes the establishment of a palestinian state, made little mention of the palestinians beyond threatening a tough response to violence.
he also vowed, like netanyahu, to oppose us-led efforts to restore the international nuclear accord with iran.
"israel will not allow iran to arm itself with nuclear weapons," he said.
"israel is not party to the agreement and will maintain full freedom to act.
"but he also thanked biden for his support of israel.
he promised to take a different approach than netanyahu, who has alienated much of the democratic party through his antagonistic relationship with then-president barack obama and close ties with former president donald trump.
"my government will make an effort to deepen and nurture relations with our friends in both parties bipartisan," bennett said.
"if there are disputes, we will manage them with fundamental trust and mutual respect.
"while bennett's speech was conciliatory, netanyahu's was confrontational.
he began by boasting of his achievements, including diplomatic treaties with four arab states and a successful coronavirus vaccination drive, before belittling the man who is replacing him.
he accused bennett of abandoning israel's right-wing electorate and joining weak "leftists" to become prime minister.
he said bennett did not have the backbone to stand up to iran or pressure from the us to make concessions to the palestinians.
"i will lead you in the daily struggle against this evil and dangerous leftist government in order to topple it," he said.
"god willing, it will happen a lot faster than what you think.
"in the opposition, netanyahu remains head of the largest party in parliament.
the new coalition is a patchwork of small and midsize parties that could collapse if any of its members decide to bolt.
bennett's party, for instance, holds just six seats in the 120-seat parliament.
yohanan plesner, president of the israel democracy institute, a nonpartisan think tank, said the new government will likely be more stable than it appears.
each party in the coalition will want to prove that it can deliver.
for that, they need "time and achievements," he said.
still, netanyahu "will continue to cast a shadow", plesner said.
the driving force behind the coalition is yair lapid, a political centrist who will become prime minister in two years in a rotation agreement with bennett, if the government lasts that long.
lapid called off a planned speech, saying he was ashamed that his 86-year-old mother had to witness the raucous behavior of his opponents.
"i wanted her to be proud of the democratic process in israel.
instead she, along with every citizen of israel, is ashamed of you and remembers clearly why it's time to replace you," he said.
netanyahu's place in israeli history is secure, having served as prime minister for a total of 15 years more than any other, including the country's founding father, david ben-gurion.
but his reputation as a political magician has faded particularly since he was indicted in 2019 for fraud, breach of trust and accepting bribes.
he refused calls to step down, instead lashing out at the media, judiciary and law enforcement, going so far as to accuse his political opponents of orchestrating an attempted coup.
last year, protesters began holding weekly rallies across the country calling on him to resign.
netanyahu remains popular among the hard-line nationalists who dominate israeli politics, but he could soon face a leadership challenge from within his own party.
a less polarising likud leader would stand a good chance of assembling the right-wing coalition that netanyahu had hoped to form.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                young dancers, wearing face masks to help curb the spread of covid-19 preparing for a performance during the opening of bali arts festival in bali, indonesia, saturday, june 12, 2021.  the island of bali is currently holding a month-long annual bali arts festival from june 12 until july 10.  apjakarta, june 12 (reuters): indonesia is expected to post its biggest trade surplus in six months of us$2.
3 billion in may, with exports and imports seen surging amid high commodity prices and a global trade recovery, a reuters poll has showed.
south-east asia's biggest economy has recorded a trade surplus every month since may 2020 as shipments were boosted by the high commodity prices and as trade partners eased coronavirus-related restrictions, while import recovery was slower due weak domestic demand.
the surplus in april was us$2.
19 billion.
eleven economists in the poll expected exports to jump 57.
49% on a yearly basis in may, outpacing the april's rise of 51.
94%, while imports were seen leaping 65% in may, against the previous month's 29.
93% rise.
"this high increases tend to be caused by the low base effect in the past year because last year's trading volume was very low at the beginning of the pandemic," said josua pardede, an economist with bank permata.
josua predicted the resource-rich country will continue to post trade surpluses for some time on the back of high commodity prices.
the covid-19 cases in indonesia rose by 7, 465 within one day to 1, 901, 490, with the death toll adding by 164 to 52, 730, the health ministry said on saturday (june 12).
according to the ministry, 5, 292 more people were discharged from hospitals, bringing the total number of recovered patients to 1, 740, 436. the virus has spread to all the country's 34 provinces.
specifically, within the past 24 hours, jakarta recorded 2, 455 new cases, central java 915, west java 876, yogyakarta 436 and riau 388. no new cases were detected in north sulawesi province.
reuters 
tags / keywords:
indonesia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                rising
                                                                ,
                                                                                                above 1.
9 million
                                                                ,
                                                                                                but trade
                                                                ,
                                                                                                high numbers



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                the pfizer-biontech and moderna covid-19 vaccines both use mrna technology.
reuters
singapore, june 12 (bernama): singapore has reported four cases of heart inflamation involving young men aged between 18 to 30 years after taking the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccines.
the republic's expert committee on covid-19 vaccination in a statement issue late friday said most cases of "myocarditis and pericarditis" were reported to have occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine.
"however.
all have recovered or have been discharged well from hospital," it said.
myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions affecting the heart muscles and the outer lining of the heart respectively.
however, the committee said that while further studies and investigations were on-going, the currently available data suggests that there might be a "very small risk" of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of an mrna vaccine, particularly in young men.
"they occur more often in men compared to women.
patients with the condition show symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
"most cases are mild, recover without the need for significant intervention and do not suffer any long-term effects, although very rarely, severe cases may result in damage to the heart muscles," it explained.
as a precaution, the committee recommended that vaccinated persons, in particular adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
the committee noted that it has been closely monitoring international reports on the situation and reviewed the currently available international and local data.
"our assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mrna covid-19 vaccines, such as reduction in covid-19 infections and severe complications even if infected, continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination," it said.
it added that increased occurrences of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccinations have been observed overseas including in the united states (us), in adolescents and young men below the age of 25 years.
"the risk of this has been estimated to be 1.
6 cases per 100, 000 doses for mrna vaccines in the us, which is comparable to the risk of anaphylaxis observed in singapore.
"to date, there is no observed incremental risk of myocarditis and pericarditis after the first dose of vaccine," it said.
bernama
tags / keywords:
covid-19
                                                                ,
                                                                                                singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                mrna
                                                                ,
                                                                                                vaccine
                                                                ,
                                                                                                myocarditis
                                                                ,
                                                                                                pericarditis



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
an incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace is yet another reminder of beijing's belligerence, says this observernew south wales: earlier this month, 16 chinese military transport aircraft weresighted a little more than 100kmoff the coast of the east malaysian state of sarawak.
the royal malaysian air force called it "a serious threat to national sovereignty".
the ministry of foreign affairs summoned china's ambassador to malaysia to voice its displeasure over the incursion into malaysian airspace.
however, china's foreign ministry spokesperson dismissed malaysian concerns by claiming that the aircraft were there for "routine flight exercises".
malaysia is not alone in being wary of chinese intentions in the region.
china's infamous "nine-dash line" around the south china sea and unilateral claims to as much as 80 per cent of the disputed waters, along with the construction of artificial islands, has caused much consternation.
regular incursions by chinese fishing trawlers have occurred in indonesian, vietnamese and filipino waters, and the belligerence displayed by chinese naval vessels and aircraft has further fuelled suspicions.
southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
the incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace comes barely two months after a controversial remark by the malaysian foreign affairs minister hishammuddin hussein during a visit to fujian province in southern china on apr 1. hishammuddin told his chinese counterpart wang yi that "you will always be my elder brother".
prominent malaysian opposition leader anwar ibrahim lamented that "this is not the language and style that should be used in the diplomatic world and international relations, as it seemingly implies malaysia is a puppet to a foreign power".
anwar urged hishammuddin to retract his comment and apologise to malaysians.
hishammuddin later clarified that his remark was meant to show his respect to wang, who is an older person and a very senior diplomat.
china as a superpowerhishammudin should have been more cautious with his language.
his remarks offer a further warning of the potential cost to southeast asian leaders of being seen to defer to china's sphere of influence.
beijing has calculated that as china gained stature as a superpower southeast asian nations would not, and could not, challenge its economic and military might.
this was underscored after president xi jinping announced in 2015 that china had no intention of militarising the south china sea, only to then proceeded to build more artificial islands and install missiles and erect buildings and military bases on those islands.
the risk for hishammudin was to again reinforce this lesson.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
southeast asian countries, including malaysia, recognise that none of them has the capability to match china's military might.
and the region does indeed have deep ties with china economically, which beijing is eager to grow.
construction of a high-speed railway service linking kunming in yunnan province with singapore as part of the belt and road initiative (bri) remains a top priority for china.
however, southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
china has been actively cultivating malaysia through the funding and construction of massive infrastructure projects.
in 2016, the east coast rail link (ecrl) costing 65.
5 billion ringgit (us$15.
8 billion) was launched to link kuantan on the eastern coast with ports in the western coast.
the melaka gateway, a us$10.
5 billion commercial and property development project, was awarded to a malaysian company that included three chinese commercial partners.
three pipelines were also awarded to chinese companies at a cost of us$4.
1 billion.
tight economic tiesmalaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
yet after the ruling barisan nasional was voted out of office in 2018, the incoming prime minister mahathir mohamed proceeded to review these projects.
in a visit to beijing in august 2018, he warned about the "new version of colonialism" where rich countries preyed on poorer ones in what was taken to be a swipe to china.
the three planned pipelines were scrapped a month later.
mahathir renegotiated terms for the ecrl and reduced the cost to 44 billion ringgit in 2019. with the collapse of the mahathir government in february 2020, prime minister muhyiddin yassin proceeded to mend ties with china.
in april this year, it was announced that the renegotiated ecrl would cost 50 billion ringgit.
however, the malacca state government cancelled the melaka gateway project in november 2020 on the basis that there had been "no development".
malaysia's experience in an example of how china influence is conditioning behaviour in southeast asia.
in 2019, nikkei asia reported that the 10-member association of southeast asian nations had overtaken the united states as the second-largest trading partner for china.
chinese investments also flow into southeast asia, largely through the bri, the global times reporting in november 2020 that china's investment in southeast asia was more than 76 per cent of the total investment in countries and regions linked with the bri.
but none of this should be cause for southeast asian leaders to surrender sovereign interests to a bully in beijing.
malaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
malaysia should take a lesson of its own, that china has a "new version of colonialism".
responding collectively as a region should be the priority.
jason lim is senior lecturer in asian history at the university of wollongong and the international history review editor of the asian studies review.
this commentaryfirst appearedin the lowy institute's blog the interpreter.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a four-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his three-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan, who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000), is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020, was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have three- or four-room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a two-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his four-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
photographer: jason alden/bloombergthe world's emergence from the coronavirus pandemic is set to unleash a wave of spending by older consumers, with increasing opportunities for investors in aging-linked stocks.
that's the view of money managers who see huge pent-up demand from wealthy seniors for medical services and luxury goods.
they also expect that the forced adoption of the internet by older people during lockdown will open up this demographic permanently to e-commerce companies and social networks.
the number of people aged 65 and over is projected to double to more than 1.
5 billion by 2050, greatly increasing their economic impact.
the total spending power of the older population globally was about $8.
4 trillion in 2020, according to world data lab.
that's expected to grow to $14 trillion over the next decade.
"the pandemic has accelerated many of the issues related to aging populations and has highlighted the urgency of resolving them," said christopher rossbach, chief investment officer at j.  stern & co.  "we think they will be significant drivers for growth and investment.
"u. s. , china are dominant markets for seniors' consumption 
source: world data labnote:  data is for middle and upper classes in 2011 purchasing power parityunderpinning the thesis are global fertility rates that are forecast to keep falling as life expectancy rises, even as the virus takes a staggering human toll.
china's decision last month to allow three-child families may have only limited impact on the aging trend in the most populous country.
here are some key focuses of investors who argue that the aging theme will be even more important as economies move past the pandemic.
from cancer screening to hip replacements and cataract surgery, countless medical procedures have been postponed since the virus took hold.
as this changes, global health-care spending is projected to bounce back in 2021, rising 5.
8% to $8.
8 trillion, according to ihs markit.
rossbach expects shares of medical device manufacturers to benefit and cited thermo fisher scientific inc. , medtronic plc, becton dickinson & co.  and alcon inc. shares of all four companies have underperformed the global stock benchmark so far this year, with u. s. -listed becton dickinson down 3% versus the msci ac world index's 11% gain.
mirabaud asset management ltd.  also likes medtronic, as well as edwards lifesciences corp.  for exposure to the cardiovascular diseases sector, said global equities head anu narula.
hearing aids are another market hurt by fewer in-person consultations, with morgan stanley estimating sales will normalize this year, following a 15% decline in the market in 2020.  among businesses in this field, it has an overweight recommendation on copenhagen-listed gn store nord a/s and equal-weight on demant a/s, which have both surged this year.
"the large contingent of developed countries that have universal health coverage is being joined by an increasing number of developing markets that are establishing and/or expanding universal health-care systems, especially in emerging asian markets," said mirabaud's narula.
as well as long-delayed holidays, the travel sector is poised to pick up with support from cashed-up seniors.
"older or richer people tend to want to visit relatives more," said sanjiv bhatia, founder of pembroke emerging markets.
read more: european luxury sizzles with nasdaq-beating multiples rossbach also has his eye on a rebound in luxury spending, with lvmh and liquor makers pernod ricard sa and diageo plc among his preferred reopening bets.
"a general point is that as people age their purchasing power increases and they become more concerned with quality, not quantity, of their consumption," he said.
insurers stand to benefit too, as a surge in unplanned early retirements since the emergence of covid-19 raises awareness of unforeseen health and employment risks.
strategists at credit suisse group ag expect growth potential for insurers, particularly in markets with relatively low penetration such as china.
juliana hansveden, a fund manager at nordea asset management, sees insurance, medical and the internet all coming together to create investment opportunities.
she is expressing confidence in the theme with a bet on loss-making ping an healthcare & technology co. , which is helping patients in china avoid long waiting time at hospitals by providing online medical consultations.
it is also working with parent company ping an insurance group co.  to bundle its health-care offering with insurance policies, she said.
read more: 'new normal' on the internet for older adultsj.
stern's rossbach expects growth across the board for companies that can tap seniors and their new-found confidence online.
"think of all the parents and grandparents who have used social networks or video conferencing apps for the first time to stay in touch with their loved ones, or have bought their first products through e-commerce or ordered their groceries or meals through delivery services," he said.
— with assistance by isolde macdonogh
the outgoing israeli prime minister and his supporters are already trying to undermine the new coalition government.
will it survive?the netanyahu family is experienced in moving its belongings out of the official prime minister's residence on jerusalem's balfour street.
in 2016, prime minister benjamin netanyahu told a group of stunned settlers being evicted from their homes in the illegal west bank outpost of amona, "i understand what it means to lose a home.
after the 1999 elections, with zero warning, me and my family were simply kicked out of the house on balfour street.
just like that, with all of our belongings, we were just thrown into the street.
we had to go to the sheraton plaza hotel, it felt terrible.
"the likud party won 19 knesset seats in the 1999 elections, seven fewer than the labor party, led by ehud barak.
barak's government, just like the one sworn in on june 13, was a diverse coalition of parties, with meretz on the left, the hamerkaz party in the centre and the ultra-orthodox parties on the right.
the partnership lasted less than two years.
what can that short-lived government teach us about the future of israel's new government led by yamina party leader naftali bennett and yesh atid party head yair lapid?
what are the prospects of their diverse coalition comprising parties from the conservative jewish right, whose leaders are committed to the settlement enterprise, and lawmakers from the meretz party that boycotts goods made in the settlements?
can the fierce women's rights campaigner merav michaeli, chair of the labor party, get along with conservative interior minister ayelet shaked who has pledged to deport asylum seekers and their families?the cards that prime minister naftali bennett is holding are far worse than those barak was dealt in 1999.  first of all, there has never been an israeli prime minister, nor a leader of any democracy, whose party only won 6 percent of the vote (translated into seven seats in the 120-member knesset, one of whom is opposed to the new government).
bennett is a default option, the best of three highly imperfect alternatives, the other two being the continued rule of benjamin netanyahu after 12 years in power, or a fifth round of elections widely expected to perpetuate the political deadlock.
the new government, both its makeup and guidelines, is thus hardly the ideal choice of its left-wing or right-wing components.
bennett, as well as yisrael beitenu party leader avigdor lieberman and new hope party chair gideon saar, would have felt more comfortable in the company of their former likud party colleagues than seated alongside representatives of labor, meretz and the palestinian ra'am (united arab list) parties.
the common denominator of the new government is its disgust with netanyahu's personality and with his indictment on corruption charges.
the centre-right partners of the new government are in tune with his ideology and with his foreign and defence policies.
presumably, if netanyahu cedes his leadership of the likud, or if his party colleagues muster the courage to unseat him, many in the new government would negotiate a partnership with the likud.
however, netanyahu declared war on his successor even before he started packing and moving to the opposition benches.
netanyahu of 2021 is not the same young prime minister defeated 22 years ago who took time off from politics.
this time, he enjoys the backing of hot-headed legions of supporters and an army of violent bots.
in the government's final days, with the ground burning under their feet, leaders of the ultra-orthodox parties and their rabbis joined the chorus of incitement against bennett.
the language they adopted, and their threats of hell were reminiscent of the atmosphere that prevailed in the months prior to the november 1995 assassination of prime minister yitzhak rabin.
one of the new government's first challenges will be to douse these flames, restore trust in the country's legal system, police and the media, and try to instil respect for pluralism.
the architects of the strange bennett-lapid coalition were well aware that the opposition would identify cracks in its edifice and plant explosives to blow it up.
these explosives include legislation on highly sensitive issues, such as the relationship between religion and state, the annexation of palestinian territories, lgbtq rights and the recognition of the progressive streams of judaism challenging the monopoly of the ultra-orthodox establishment.
to defuse these time bombs, the coalition agreement perpetuates the status quo on each of these issues.
however, netanyahu has a new type of tnt at his disposal in the shape of arch-nationalist knesset member itamar ben-gvir and his arab-hating coterie.
ben-gvir was elected to the knesset this year with netanyahu's support, and is exploiting his parliamentary immunity to violate the status quo at the most volatile venues – jerusalem's muslim holy sites.
netanyahu can rely on hamas and islamic jihad to respond to ben-gvir's provocations.
and what would bennett do if rockets from gaza are fired at jerusalem in response to a visit by jewish knesset members to the al-aqsa mosque/temple mount compound, sacred to both jews and muslims?
would the two arab members of the new government, islamist ra'am chair mansour abbas and regional cooperation minister issawi frej of meretz vote in favour of retaliation against gaza and the killing of palestinian civilians?
and would lieberman and saar vote for restraint if israelis are killed in a hamas attack?and would the staunchly pro-settlement bennett, respect a court ruling to demolish the 40 homes in the illegal west bank outpost of evyatar?
how would he manoeuvre between pressure from the american administration to pursue diplomatic negotiations with the palestinians on the two-state solution, his centre-left partners who support the establishment of a palestinian state and his own strong statements against it, let alone the resentment of his partners from the right-wing parties?the negotiations on a new nuclear deal with iran are yet another obstacle facing the new government, which will force it to adopt an extremely difficult decision.
if he adheres to netanyahu's militant policy opposing the agreement, bennett will place himself on a collision course with the biden administration which will be in power throughout his two-year term.
on the other hand, if the government agrees to go along with the biden administration's policy, netanyahu is likely to launch a public campaign accusing the new government of "abandoning the jewish people to a second holocaust".
throughout his long rule, netanyahu was considered a magician walking on tightropes without a safety net.
bennett saw his performance up close when he served as his chief of staff when he was opposition leader between 2006 and 2008.  to survive in power long enough to start fixing some of the damage netanyahu has inflicted on israeli society, bennett will have to surpass his former master.
the views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect al jazeera's editorial stance.
follow al jazeera english:
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
there have been 157 reports here of suspected reactions to the covid-19 vaccines severe enough to be life-threatening or result in hospitalisation, among other serious conditions.
however, no deaths have been linked to the jab, the health sciences authority (hsa) said last friday.
these "suspected serious adverse events" made up 0.
004 per cent of the almost 3.
7 million doses of pfizer-biontech and moderna jabs administered till may 23. these serious cases form part of the 4,704 "suspected adverse event reports" that hsa received till may 23.  these translate into 0.
13 per cent of administered doses, which is consistent with the percentage that had been reported by the authority on may 6, when it last gave an update on the safety record of both mrna vaccines.
these reactions are suspected to be associated with the vaccinations, but may not have been caused by them.
an adverse event or reaction related to vaccination is any undesirable medical condition that occurs after taking the vaccine, which does not necessarily have a direct link to the treatment.
they may be coincidental or related to an undiagnosed disease, but have to be reported by healthcare providers to hsa.
reactions are considered serious if they result in hospitalisation, disability or life-threatening illnesses, among other things.
anaphylaxis, which is the rapid onset of severe allergic reactions, was the most frequently reported serious adverse event, with 26 such cases.
all of them recovered after medical treatment, hsa said.
it added that the incidence rate of anaphylaxis reported here with the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines is about 0.
85 cases for every 100,000 doses administered.
"this is similar to the incidence rates reported overseas of around 0.
5 to two per 100,000 doses administered," said hsa.
other severe allergic reactions numbered 23.  these include breathing difficulty, fast heart rate, an increase or decrease in blood pressure, chest discomfort and pain, fainting, limb numbness and weakness or pain, changes in vision, increase in liver enzymes, joint pain, fits, ringing in the ears and infections.
the authority said most of those who had developed serious adverse events have recovered or are recovering.
"these serious adverse events are being closely monitored by hsa," it added.
hsa said that the most commonly reported reactions are consistent with those typically observed following vaccination.
from the 4,704 reactions, the most common one was cases of rash, which accounted for more than one in four reported adverse events.
this was followed by cases of swelling of eyelids, face or lips, which occurred in about one in seven cases.
these are typically resolved within a few days and are in line with the events described in the vaccines' product information, as well as those reported overseas.
most of the adverse events were associated with the pfizer-biontech vaccine, which was rolled out for use here on dec 30 last year and comprised 83 per cent of the doses administered.
moderna was deployed on march 12 this year.
about 68 per cent of the total number of reactions reported were among people below the age of 60. hsa pointed out that trials of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines found that those younger than 60 tend to experience more adverse effects occurring soon after vaccination, compared with those who are older.
generally, younger people have more active immune responses and may experience more adverse effects, said hsa.
it pointed out that this is part of the body's natural response to build immunity against covid-19 infection.
the authority added that 64 per cent of these reactions were reported in females.
its update also noted that a greater frequency of heart attacks and strokes has not been observed in vaccinated persons locally.
this comes after it was announced last friday that six people were reported to have suffered heart inflammation after receiving covid-19 vaccines four of whom were men aged below 30. as a precaution, experts have advised that vaccinated people, especially adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"it is important to note that heart attacks and strokes can occur naturally within our population, regardless of whether people are vaccinated or not," said hsa.
"due to the large numbers of people being vaccinated, it is expected that, by coincidence, some individuals may experience other medical events such as heart attacks and strokes in the days or weeks after vaccination which may not be related to the vaccination.
"hsa said it is monitoring the incidence of anaphylaxis and bell's palsy, which are adverse events historically reported with vaccines.
there have been 45 reported cases of bell's palsy, which causes temporary weakness or paralysis of facial muscles.
most of the cases were not serious, hsa said, and patients will generally have complete recovery even without treatment.
the incidence rate for this reaction in singapore is estimated to be 3.
35 per 100,000 persons per month.
hsa said that this is within the background incidence of 1.
1 to 4.
4 per 100,000 persons per month before the introduction of vaccination.
the authority said that it, along with the ministry of health, will continue to monitor the safety of covid-19 vaccines closely and update the public on any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic, hsa added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

home
 > 
life
posted at jun 14 2021 10:04 amsharetokyo tokyo olympic organizers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organizers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organizers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organizers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)shareweightlifting: official says bohol prospect sarno won't make olympics cutjune 14, 2021duterte, daughter sara unlikely to run under one ticket in 2022 polls, says lacsonjune 14, 2021watch: taal volcano emits steam-driven plumesjune 14, 2021lacson wants full accounting of p82.
5-b fund for covid vaccinesjune 14, 2021nominees declining not a good start for 1sambayan lacsonjune 14, 2021football: denmark team doctor confirms eriksen suffered 'cardiac arrest'june 14, 2021tennis: djokovic eyes golden grand slam after french open victoryjune 14, 2021wnba: aces power past wings, liberty hold off mercuryjune 14, 2021'things can change': 1sambayan says nominees for 2022 still 'fluid'june 14, 2021'a very decent person': lacson wishes robredo 'best of luck' after being named as possible presidential betjune 14, 2021football: scotland, spain set to start euro 2020 campaigns after england's opening winjune 14, 2021tennis: 'no regrets, no tears' for beaten tsitsipasjune 14, 2021winners leaguejune 14, 2021dumaguete covid-19 cases rise due to easing of travel restriction: mayorjune 14, 2021demonstrators celebrate israel's new coalition governmentjune 14, 2021gov't releases 200,000 national ids; 35 million pinoys finish step 1june 14, 2021motorcycle rider patay matapos magulungan ng bus sa edsajune 14, 2021okay bang kumuha ng co-branded credit card?june 14, 2021microsoft bolsters video game line-up as xbox turns 20june 14, 2021'divine vessel' to mark china's first human spaceflight since 2016june 14, 2021
brand news
brand newsmake every day a 'goodday' to move forwardhow to take care of your hands while keeping it cleanchito and neri miranda on wais parentingthis og 5g offers 25gb of no expiry datahow parents can help their kids with remote learningselfie tech, extended ram on latest vivo v21 series5 reasons to check this one-stop shop for home needspower your game livestream to showcase local gamers5 things you need to know about vitamin ccollege student wins p10-m in telco promosigns your 3+ toddlers lack nutrition and how to address itlazada ph celebrates mid-year with new brand ambassadorvivo v21 series now available for pre-order#bestme: empowering the best version of youvivo launches v21 seriesvivo partners with zeiss for elevated mobile photography on the x60a new era of beauty for everyone and the planetp1-m worth of prizes await winners of this e-sports tournamentvivo, zeiss collab unveils professional camera tech in x60 smartphoneshere is how this company promises to mitigate climate changeeasy to make yummy options for your child's breakfastvivo, together with zeiss, launches x60 series in phmandaluyong mall receives lgu safety seala modern, more-than-meets-the-eye art piece tells this beauty brand's storythis supermarket introduces self-checkout countertwo entry-level smartphones with longer battery life and bigger display© 2021 abs-cbn corporation.
all rights reserved.
aboutcareersprivacytermscontact usadvertise with us
federal health minister greg hunt and commodore eric young of the vaccine operations centre will provide a covid-19 update shortlyfollow our live coverage for the latest news on the coronavirus pandemic.
ap: eugene hoshiko, file phototokyo olympics organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
the athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other in the athletes' villageathletes will be asked to dine alone instead of using the big dining halls in the villagethe condoms are distributed to raise awareness about hivlarge numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organisers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from one another.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athletes' village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
ap: jae c.  hongdining has become another issue to resolve.
organisers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls, the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organisers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures, said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
reuterssee our full coverage of coronaviruswe acknowledge aboriginal and torres strait islander peoples as the first australians and traditional custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work.
this service may include material from agence france-presse (afp), aptn, reuters, aap, cnn and the bbc world service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
aest = australian eastern standard time which is 10 hours ahead of gmt (greenwich mean time)
how they can help in wealth creationtomorrow is different.
let's reshape it todaylet's get smarter about money#toughertogetherhunt for the brightest engineers in indiamental health awareness initiativethe dynamic duo of a holistic self-caredownload the economic times news app to get daily market updates & live business news.
trending nowpopular categorieshot on webin case you missed itet verticalsmore from our networkother useful linksservicesfind this comment offensive?choose your reason below and click on the report button.
this will alert our moderators to take actionreason for reporting:your reason has been reported to the admin.
log in/connect with:will be displayedwill not be displayedwill be displayedstories you might be interested in

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                singapore reports 10 new covid-19 community infections, including 2 unlinked.
singapore's total cases on sunday (june 13, 2021) now stands at 62, 276.  the straits times/annsingapore, june 13 (the straits times/ann): there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62, 276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
meanwhile, 266 people who have mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive for covid-19 are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
altogether 34 people have passed away from complications due to covid-19 infection in singapore.
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cases
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sunday (june 13)
                                                                ,
                                                                                                only 13
                                                                ,
                                                                                                situation
                                                                ,
                                                                                                under control



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
the group of seven leaders ended their summit on sunday by demanding that russia take action and investigate the use of chemical weapons within its territory and hold accountable those behind ransomware attacks and other cyber crimes.
why it matters: the allied language come as all eyes turn to president biden's wednesday meeting with russian president vladimir putin in geneva.
get market news worthy of your time with axios markets.
subscribe for free.
the state of play: the leaders called on russia to "end its systematic crackdown on independent civil society and media.
"they also reiterated their support for ukraine and pressed russia to deescalate tensions between the two nations by withdrawing troops from ukraine's eastern border and the crimean peninsula.
the big picture: secretary of state antony blinken made the rounds on the sunday talk shows and tried to temper expectations about the upcoming meeting between biden and putin, saying that it would not be a "flip-the-light switch moment" for u. s. -russia relations.
biden himself told reporters on sunday that he agreed with putin's recent comments that u. s. -russia relations are at their lowest point in years, per reuters.
a recent abc news/ipsos poll found that 49% of americans trust biden to negotiate on their behalf with putin.
but, but, but: lawmakers from both parties want biden to take a tough stance with putin on the issue of ransomware gangs, and convey the message that if russia doesn't crack down on cybercriminals within its borders, the united states will, according to politico.
putin has expressed willingness to hand over cybercriminals to the united states if the united states returns the favor, per reuters.
ukraine's president volodymyr zelensky has also expressed reservations about the upcoming biden's decisions vis-a-vis russia.
of note: the issues of chemical weapons and cyberattacks are in the spotlight at this year's g7 summit in light of the poisoning of russian opposition leader alexei navalny with a chemical nerve agent and the ransomware attack on america's colonial pipeline, reports reuters.
the colonial pipeline attack was carried out by darkside, a russia-based cybercrime group.
more from axios: sign up to get the latest market trends with axios markets.
subscribe for freethe following is a transcript of an interview with andy slavitt, former white house senior covid-19 adviser, that aired sunday, june 13, 2021, on "face the nation.
"moscow's mayor has effectively declared a public holiday for all of next week to combat a surge in covid-19 cases.
sergei sobyanin announced the decision on saturday, saying it would not affect organisations that maintain the russian capital's infrastructure, the military, and other strategically important enterprises.
monday is anyway a public holiday, and the mayor told people to also stay off work for the rest of the week.
have you considered how you'll withdraw your retirement income?
these simple mistakes could cost you thousands of dollars.
hong kong democracy activist agnes chow was released on saturday from prison on the second anniversary of the city's huge democracy rallies, with police out in force and protests now all but banned.
two thousand officers have been placed on standby after social media calls for residents to commemorate the failed democracy demonstrations.
authorities have kept a coronavirus prohibition on public gatherings despite the city recording just three local infections in the last month.
a beijing-imposeddenzel dumfries rescued the netherlands with a goal in the 85th minute to give his team a 3-2 win over ukraine at the european championship.
the netherlands was playing at a major soccer tournament for the first time in seven years.
fans in amsterdam for the european championship match between the netherlands and ukraine have expressed their support for christian eriksen following his collapse on saturday.
the islamic state group has claimed responsibility for bombing two minivans in a mostly shiite neighborhood in the afghan capital that killed seven people.
among the dead were two employees of afghanistan's state-run film company, a colleague said sunday.
in a statement issued late saturday, afghanistan's is affiliate said its operatives blew up two minivans carrying "disbeliever shiites" using sticky bombs.
get a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
south african health inspectors will carry out further checks on a batch of johnson & johnson covid-19 vaccines following a contamination error earlier this year at the u. s.  plant where the doses were produced, the health ministry said.
"there is now a real possibility that they may not be, however this is for the regulator to rule on," a ministry statement said.
the ministry said 300,000 j&j doses had been cleared for export to south africa and that the u. s.  food and drug administration (fda) had approved an extension of the expiry date, saying the vaccine can be stored at 2-8 degrees celsius for 4.
5 months instead of three.
nato leaders hope to open a new chapter in transatlantic relations at a summit with u. s.  president joe biden on monday, agreeing to focus on tackling climate change for the first time as well as facing up china's military rise.
described as a "pivotal moment" by nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg, the summit aims to turn the page on four tense years with biden's predecessor donald trump, who shook confidence in the western alliance by calling it "obsolete".
for the 30 allies meeting in brussels, diplomats say nothing could be further from the truth, looking to the nuclear-armed alliance founded in 1949 to help deal with threats from extreme weather that can worsen conflicts to russian attempts to undermine western democracies through covert attacks.
the island of cyprus has become a hotspot for loggerhead sea turtles to nest from spring to summer.
if you pay more than $99/month for power and own a home in texas, you better read this.
photo: "axios on hbo"ambassador linda thomas-greenfield, u. s.  ambassador to the u. n. , told me on "axios on hbo" that president biden will be candid, frank — and tough — during this week's summit with russian president vladimir putin.
"the president will make clear to the russians that they cannot harbor cyber terrorists and criminals in their country and not be held accountable for it," she added.
"and they need to take the responsibility for dealing with this issue.
"stay on top of the latest marcanadian prime minister justin trudeau led a group of seven discussion of china on saturday and called on leaders to come up with a unified approach to the challenges posed by the people's republic, a source said.
g7 leaders who together control about $40 trillion in economic clout reached broad alignment on building a concerted approach to china, the source with knowledge of the discussions told reuters.
"trudeau's message today was that we really need to work to build a consensus on a unified approach to the challenges that china presents all of us," the source said.
francisco lindor's bat has started to come around of late, as evidenced by his two-run home run in the first inning of saturday's 4-1 win over the san diego padres.
read this before going solar in texas.
[you'll likely qualify!
]england gets its tournament started on sunday.
benjamin netanyahu, israel's longest serving prime minister, was ousted on sunday night by a cross-party coalition government, raising hopes that the worst political crisis in the country's history is drawing to a close.
at a special session in the knesset, the israeli parliament, lawmakers voted narrowly in favour of removing mr netanyahu from high office and swearing in a unity government.
the coalition will be led by naftali bennett, the right-wing leader of the yamina party, who will serve athe pine island glacier on the west antarctic ice sheet is responsible for more than a quarter of antarctica's contribution to global sea level rise over the past decades.
now, a new study shows it is more vulnerable to rapid melting than thought, because climate change is weakening its natural braking system.
why it matters: at stake is the future of a glacier containing about 160 trillion tons of ice, which if it were all to melt into the ocean would cause about 1.
6 feet of global sea level risso mad that i just learned this.
.
.
at a low point in u. s. -russian relations, president joe biden and russian president vladimir putin appear to agree broadly on at least one thing — their first face-to-face meeting wednesday is a chance to set the stage for a new era in arms control.
the fabric of arms control has been fraying, notably with the abandonment in 2019 — first by washington, then by moscow — of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, which had governed a whole class of missiles for more than three decades.
last month the biden administration informed the russians that it would not reenter the treaty, and last week putin confirmed russia's exit.
biden's meeting with queen elizabeth ii is his first in nearly four decades.
western democracies are in a race to compete with autocratic governments, u. s.  president joe biden said on sunday.
"we're in a contest, not with china per se, .
.
.
with autocrats, autocratic governments around the world, as to whether or not democracies can compete with them in a rapidly changing 21st century," biden told a news conference at the conclusion of a group of seven leaders' summit in britain.
top surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
"pulse nightclub is hallowed ground.
"eriksen, 29, collapsed in the 42nd minute of the match near the touchline after a denmark throw-in and was given life-saving cardiac massage treatment on the pitch, with officials later saying the player was stable and awake in hospital.
sanjay sharma of st.  george's university of london, the playmaker's cardiologist at former club tottenham hotspur, also said eriksen had no prior heart issues during his time with the premier league side.
president joe biden's hopes of channeling billions of dollars into green infrastructure investments  to fight climate change are running into the political obstacle of winning over republican lawmakers who oppose that approach as unnecessary, excessive spending.
as negotiations unfold in congress in search of a bipartisan deal, the white house's ability to ensure a climate focus in biden's sweeping infrastructure package is becoming daunting — so much so that key democrats are warning the administration to quit negotiating with republicans, calling it a waste of time that will produce no viable compromise.
the debate is similar to the political and policy differences complicating biden's broader talks over his ambitious infrastructure agenda, the sweeping $1.
7 trillion american jobs plan making its way through congress, as democrats and republicans argue over what, exactly, constitutes infrastructure and how much is needed.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
milan (reuters) the head of the european union drug regulator's covid-19 task force said on sunday (june 13) that astrazeneca's coronavirus vaccine had a favourable risk-benefit profile for all age groups and particularly for those aged over 60. italian newspaper la stampa earlier quoted european medicines agency (ema) task force chief marco cavaleri as saying that countries should avoid giving the vaccine to people aged over 60 in addition to younger age groups, amid fears over very rare blood clotting and as alternative vaccines become available.
"unfortunately my words have not been interpreted correctly in a recent interview with la stampa," dr cavaleri said in a statement to reuters.
the astrazeneca shot "maintains a favourable benefit risk profile in all ages but particularly in the elderly above 60", he said.
the ema's position is that the astrazeneca shot is safe and can be used for all age groups over 18.  however several eu member states have stopped administering it to people below a certain age, usually ranging from 50 to 65, restricting its use to older people, due to very rare cases of blood clotting, mainly among young people.
on sunday evening, la stampa changed the headline on its article online and added a clarification with dr cavaleri's later comments to its article.
la stampa editor massimo giannini said he had no further comment.
earlier this week, the italian government said it would restrict the use of the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, after a teenager who had received the shot died from a rare form of blood clotting.
italian health minister roberto speranza told reporters on sunday that italy will continue to use the astrazeneca vaccine on the over 60s, including on those who have not received a first shot.
like many european countries, italy briefly halted astrazeneca inoculations in march over concerns about the very rare blood clotting problems.
it resumed them the following month with the recommendation that the product be "preferably" used for people over the age of 60, after the ema said its benefits outweighed any risks.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
carbis bay, england: group of seven (g7) leaders on sunday (jun 13) scolded china over human rights in xinjiang, called for hong kong to keep a high degree of autonomy and demanded a full and thorough investigation of the origins of the coronavirus in china.
after discussing how to come up with a unified position on china, leaders issued a highly critical final communique that delved into what are for china some of the most sensitive issues, including also taiwan.
the re-emergence of china as a leading global power is considered to be one of the most significant geopolitical events of recent times, alongside the 1991 fall of the soviet union that ended the cold war.
china's rise has also unnerved the united states: president joe biden casts china as the main strategic competitor and has vowed to confront china's "economic abuses" and push back against human rights violations.
"we will promote our values, including by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, especially in relation to xinjiang and those rights, freedoms and high degree of autonomy for hong kong enshrined in the sino-british joint declaration," the g7 said.
"we also call for a timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based who-convened phase 2 covid-19 origins study including, as recommended by the experts' report, in china," the g7 said.
reuters earlier reported the finalised version of the draft communique.
before the g7 criticism emerged, china pointedly cautioned g7 leaders that the days when "small" groups of countries decided the fate of the world was long gone.
the g7 also said they underscored "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait, and encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-strait issues".
"we remain seriously concerned about the situation in the east and south china seas and strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status quo and increase tensions," they said.
forced labourthe g7 said it was concerned about forced labour in global supply chains including in the agricultural, solar and garment sectors.
"we are concerned by the use of all forms of forced labour in global supply chains, including state-sponsored forced labour of vulnerable groups and minorities, including in the agricultural, solar, and garment sectors," the g7 said.
beijing has repeatedly hit back against what it perceives as attempts by western powers to contain china, and says many major powers are still gripped by an outdated imperial mindset after years of humiliating china.
un experts and rights groups estimate more than a million people, mainly uyghurs and other muslim minorities, have been detained in recent years in a vast system of camps in xinjiang.
china denies all accusations of forced labour or abuse.
it initially denied the camps existed, but has since said they are vocational centres and are designed to combat extremism.
in late 2019, china said all people in the camps had "graduated".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
in a joint communique, the g7 pledges to address vaccine inequity, climate change and global taxes.
the leaders of the g7 countries ended a three-day summit with a diverse set of initiatives, including a pledge to vaccinate poorer countries against the coronavirus, a promise to make large corporations pay their fair share of taxes and a plan to tackle climate change with a blend of technology and money.
in a joint communique delivered on sunday at the end of the meeting in the british southwestern city of cornwall, the leaders of the g7 countries – canada, france, germany, italy, japan, the united kingdom and the united states – sought to show that international cooperation is back after the upheavals caused by the pandemic and the unpredictability of former us president donald trump.
here is a round-up of the g7's main initiatives:the g7 made ambitious promises, such as sharing vaccine doses with less well-off nations that urgently need them.
uk prime minister boris johnson, who held a press conference at the conclusion of the summit, said the group would pledge at least 1 billion doses, with half of that coming from the us and 100 million from britain.
many of the promised doses will flow through covax, a global vaccine buying system backed by the world health organization and gavi, the vaccine alliance.
the pledge does not represent entirely new resources, and the donation is far short of the number of shots needed to fully vaccinate poorer nations.
moreover, the plan does not address distribution gaps that could make it difficult to deliver doses.
who chief tedros adhanom ghebreyesus and other public health officials commended the vaccine pledge but said it is not enough.
to truly end the pandemic, he said, 11 billion doses are needed to vaccinate at least 70 percent of the world's population by mid-2022.
"we need more and we need them faster," tedros said.
the g7 also urged china to cooperate with the un health agency on a "transparent" second-phase probe into the origins of the global coronavirus pandemic.
"we .
.
.
call for a timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based who-convened phase 2 covid-19 origins study including, as recommended by the experts' report, in china," the group said in their final statement.
climate change was a key focus of the leaders' final day of talks with the g7 countries formally backing the ramp-up of collective action to tackle the environmental crisis.
"we commit to .
.
.
halving our collective emissions over the two decades to 2030, increasing and improving climate finance to 2025 and to conserve or protect at least 30 percent of our land and oceans by 2030," read the joint communique.
the seven leaders also agreed to raise their contributions to meet an overdue spending pledge of $100bn a year to help poorer countries cut carbon emissions and cope with global warming, but campaigners said firm cash promises were missing.
alongside plans billed as helping speed infrastructure funding in developing countries and a shift to renewable and sustainable technology, the world's seven largest advanced economies again pledged to meet the climate finance target.
however, climate groups said such promises lacked detail.
a spokesman for british prime minister boris johnson said individual nations were expected to set out the size of the increases "in due course".
max lawson, head of inequality policy at oxfam, said it was "unacceptable that most of the g7 missed the opportunity to make new pledges of climate finance.
""developing countries were looking for progress on this front ahead of landmark climate talks in glasgow.
vague promises of new financing for green development projects should not distract from this goal," he said.
the decision had been widely anticipated after finance ministers earlier this month embraced placing a global minimum tax of at least 15 percent on large multinational companies, in an attempt to stop corporations from using tax havens to avoid taxes and thus robbing some countries of much-needed revenue.
the proposal will now go to g20 nations meeting in italy next month.
the wealthy nations demanded russia take action against those conducting cyberattacks and using ransomware, and called for an investigation into the use of chemical weapons on russian soil.
"we call on russia to urgently investigate and credibly explain the use of a chemical weapon on its soil, to end its systematic crackdown on independent civil society and media, and to identify, disrupt, and hold to account those within its borders who conduct ransomware attacks, abuse virtual currency to launder ransoms, and other cybercrimes," a communique issued after the conclusion of the leaders' summit in britain said.
the g7 also called for an immediate end to hostilities in ethiopia's tigray region.
"we are deeply concerned by the ongoing conflict in ethiopia's tigray region and reports of an unfolding major humanitarian tragedy," said the communique.
"we call for an immediate cessation of hostilities, unimpeded humanitarian access to all areas and the immediate withdrawal of eritrean forces.
"fighting broke out in the region in november between government troops and the region's former ruling party, the tigray people's liberation front (tplf).
troops from neighbouring eritrea also entered the conflict to support the ethiopian government.
the leaders of the wealthy democracies say they will work together to challenge china's "non-market economic practices" and to call on beijing to respect human rights in xinjiang and hong kong.
us president joe biden had wanted to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing and strongly call out china's "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses".
the g7 communique said: "with regard to china, and competition in the global economy, we will continue to consult on collective approaches to challenging non-market policies and practices which undermine the fair and transparent operation of the global economy.
"the leaders also said they will promote their values by calling on china to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms in xinjiang, where beijing is accused of committing serious human rights abuses against the uighur minority, and in the semi-autonomous city of hong kong.
un chief warns virus could mutate and become resistant to the vaccines.
protesters march to downing street and call on g7 leaders to end their support to israel following gaza assault.
the 'build back better world' project is aimed squarely at competing with china's belt and road initiative.
follow al jazeera english:
a former producing director (pd) for sbs's "running man" has nothing but compliments for lee kwang soo!on june 13, former pd lee hwan jin uploaded a picture of lee kwang soo on his instagram account along with a post praising the star for his attitude on the show.
his post reads as follows:from what i remember, kwang soo never once told the producers "no.
"he tore off name tags with a broken pinky toe, and even got soaked with water in the middle of winter while suffering from a cold.
when i was looking at kwang soo while editing, i thought he was such a hilarious guy that if his fancam were to be released it would be a culture shock to comedians all around the world.
to the hoodwinker of the entertainment world who appeared like a mutant, my good friend, and special brother kwang soo, you truly did an amazing job for such a long time.
lastly, there is something i would like to convey to everyone.
kwang soo is not an idiot.
or is he.
.
.
?even if he is, he's not.
.
.
that much of an idiot.
or.
.
.
is.
.
.
he?pd lee hwan jin ended his post with the hashtags "forever," "running man," and "lee kwang soo.
"어차피 잘 될 놈(@hwanjine)님의 공유 게시물the next episode of running man, which will be lee kwang soo's last before stepping down from the show, airs on june 13 at 5 p. m.  kst.
watch "running man" below: watch now source (1)top photo credit: xportsnews
eric and wei shi panicked at first: how could they raise elliot to be like everyone else?
would he lag developmentally?
could he ever be rich and successful?
a year on, they're using his story to inspire others.
singapore: there are nine photos of baby elliot displayed above the koh family's dining table.
they provide a window into a time when life was very different for his parents.
in one, elliot is just out of hospital, a newborn being burped by his father.
in another, he is cuddled up to his mother, warmly dressed against the spray of jewel's indoor waterfall.
there is also one of his parents kissing him, their arms encircling him protectively.
eric, 32, and wei shi, 31, put the photos up one evening last july when elliot was four months old.
they were looking forward to showing them to him as he grew older.
they have never got to do so.
the very next day, they brought him to the doctor, suspecting a developmental delay.
a day later, they found out elliot was blind and was unlikely to ever have sight.
eric remembers both of them bursting into tears on the spot.
"my wife was still listening to the doctor intently to hear his explanation and diagnosis," he says.
"i just walked out of the room and cried.
"nothing much needed to be said.
"the clinic was crowded, but his world went silent when he walked out of the doctor's office.
he called his mother, broke it to her and they cried on the phone together.
he was still in shock as he tried to process how it had come to this.
it started with a comment from wei shi's father, who had noticed elliot seemingly having trouble tracking things with his eyes.
the couple did not think much of it then.
newborns often do not see very well yet, and their son would catch up, they rationalised.
but the signs kept coming.
he showed no interest in the toys his grandmother placed in front of him.
he did not seem to smile or look at his surroundings.
and when wei shi brought elliot on a play date, she noticed that her friend's baby of the same age was curious and excited, reaching out to grab toys, while elliot remained passive and did not lift his head.
at that point, they decided to take him to a doctor, although they were still "not too worried".
but the paediatrician referred them to an ophthalmologist, who gave them the news that shook their world.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the couple did not exchange many words that day.
but questions kept running through their minds.
what could they do for elliot?
what will happen to him when they are gone?wei shi could not help but wonder: had she done anything — maybe it was her diet or lifestyle — during her pregnancy or even during the delivery that could have resulted in this?but eric made it clear that neither of them was to blame.
"we can't solve the problem just by assigning blame," he says.
"i was just focused on providing support for elliot and wei shi, just to be there and give them what they need.
"elliot, now 15 months old, was eventually diagnosed with leber congenital amaurosis, an inherited disease that causes vision loss.
it affects about two to three newborns in every 100,000 births, according to the united states' national library of medicine and the american association for paediatric ophthalmology and strabismus.
"the doctors said it wasn't detectable on any scan because the retinas were just so tiny.
and it's not something that was avoidable," she added.
once i knew that, i started to think that maybe i should focus on what i can control rather than the past, which is beyond my control.
a new frienderic and wei shi wanted more answers to all the questions they had.
being young, modern parents, as they described themselves, they turned to google first.
they searched for the abstract, like how the blind visualise things, as well as answers as to how they could interact with and take care of elliot.
watch: raising a blind baby and the lessons we've learnt from it (12:02)they joined facebook groups for parents of children with the same disorder.
while these were international groups, it was encouraging to see that the other children were growing up well.
the couple also picked up useful tips on caring for elliot, but the issue was a lack of local context.
they knew his condition was rare but had still hoped that help would be readily available for blind infants in singapore.
for example, wei shi remembers looking for pre-schools or specialised therapies for visually impaired babies and children.
but she came away disappointed.
"it made me panic a little because i didn't know better," she says.
"and if there's nothing on the internet, where can i find this information?
"she recalls asking the doctors as much as possible about what to expect and so on.
but there were times the couple were also at a loss to know what to ask, she adds.
help came from an unexpected source.
as eric sat in hospital waiting for elliot to undergo tests, he flicked his phone's screen and went on reddit, which he browsed regularly.
he had never made a post on the forum — but that day, he did.
it was, simply: baby born blind.
need help.
the replies he got surprised and touched him.
some pointed out local resources and organisations that support the blind; others said they had visually impaired friends and were happy to share their experiences.
"people were so willing to help," he says.
"they gave us more than enough resources for us to get by.
"that was how they met cheryl yeo.
an orientation and mobility specialist from guide dogs singapore, the 29-year-old teaches people with visual impairment how to travel independently, and the skills they eventually need to use a guide dog.
the kohs had tried ringing up several organisations but could not get through in the post-circuit breaker period, with people still working from home.
cheryl, whose calls were rerouted to her mobile, was the first person to call them back.
the conversation lasted almost two hours.
the couple were anxious and, she recalls, sounded overwhelmed.
"one of the big questions eric asked was whether elliot would be able to get a girlfriend," she says.
"it's rather funny, but it's actually quite a big concern because it's about how he's going to grow up, be like everyone else and find a job.
"she told them stories about her clients, like the schools they attended, their jobs and, in answer to eric's question, how some of them were looking for girlfriends.
"it's just (about) showing him that it's quite possible to be independent even though you're growing up with vision impairment," she says.
she arranged for them to speak to some of her clients and linked them up with other organisations and services they could tap for support.
it was a great comfort to the couple.
"what we wanted at that point in time was just reassurance, that somebody understood what we were going through," says eric.
"she's been a great help.
"they count her as one of their friends now.
she visits them regularly, teaching them how to interact and play with elliot, and even brings along her husband and eight-month-old baby.
bringing up babyas the months went by, the family developed their own routine.
it bears similarities to those of other families with young children, but with noticeable tweaks.
during breakfast, wei shi puts elliot's hand on her jaw so he can feel the chewing motion.
it is to encourage him, but it is no picnic; he does not like food, and the colourful vegetables in his porridge do nothing to entice him.
"in the past, i introduced exciting stuff with different textures.
but it was disappointing if he didn't eat," she says.
"nowadays i don't care already.
i'd just throw everything into a pot to make porridge.
"his play area is strewn with toys that tend to make sounds or play music.
one of his favourites is a spinning toy that makes a rattling sound.
there is a dinosaur whose buttons he presses to hear sounds, and a toy piano on one side of the living room.
his books are heavy on texture, have buttons that play music, and one has braille markings, passed to him from another family with a visually impaired child.
wei shi points out, however, that his condition does not mean they cannot do visual activities like reading a book with him.
the activity simply must be adapted so he can understand.
"if he wasn't visually impaired, i'd probably just point to the different pictures and tell him it's a cow.
but he won't be able to relate to all this.
so i tell him this is a book, this is how a book works, you have to flip the pages and press the button," she cites.
while there are toys that he cannot fully enjoy, such as stacking cups and animal figures, the couple make a point of letting him feel the different shapes and textures.
what has met with little success, however, is an activity board filled with locks, switches and lights, known as a toddlers' busy board.
it was handmade by eric during his wife's pregnancy.
the appeal of these toys often comes from children watching their parents use them.
but eric has not given up hope.
"perhaps when he's 15, he'll start getting interested," quips the father.
each activity they plan for him is purposeful, from the nightly baby massages to help him relax before bedtime, to naming his body parts out loud as they touch each one.
like other parents, they take him out to enjoy new experiences, though the highlight of the outing may only be something like elliot sitting on artificial grass at jewel.
it can be tiring, wei shi says, to plan all the activities and look after him.
but his sweet smile when he crawls to her and feels her face spurs the couple on.
that action is a sign of improvement too.
"all the lost sleep, the time spent with him to bring him to who he is today, is totally worth it," she says.
his biggest achievementeric and wei shi learnt from the start that being blind meant elliot would have no visual motivation to lift his head and reach forward, which would result in other developmental delays, such as in standing and even crawling.
so sometimes they cannot imagine he has come this far.
crawling is a difficult milestone to achieve, says wei shi.
besides the lack of visual motivation, there is the fear of moving head-first into an unfamiliar, dark space.
and many visually impaired babies would skip this stage.
getting the hang of it was not easy for elliot.
it took months of effort, professional therapy and his parents' perseverance with shaking a rattle in front of him to encourage him before he began making tentative movements forward.
"i would've been okay if he'd skipped crawling altogether.
i thought it was just good exercise for him," says wei shi.
"but one fine day, he just pushed up and started crawling.
"i was really, really proud of him.
"their pride grows when they see him exploring the house by himself, even the corners he had not explored before, or moving across the living room to get closer to the sound of nursery rhymes from the television.
he now goes for physiotherapy, speech therapy and occupational therapy about once a month at kk women's and children's hospital.
and they have high hopes for him once again.
"nobody wants their kid to be lousy," says eric.
"like any other singaporean parent, our initial thought was for our baby to be rich, successful and happy with what he does.
"while that changed when they discovered elliot's condition, they have come to understand over the months that he can achieve as much as a sighted person.
"our expectations shouldn't be (lowered) from .
.
.
'i want my kid to be successful' to 'okay, just be independent,'" says eric.
"you just have to realise that he'll have to reach these targets in a different way.
"dealing with reactions from others, however, is still a work in progress.
eric was recently reminded of an incident when elliot was about six months old and was wearing baby spectacles that stopped him pressing his eyes, a tendency among visually impaired children that could result in sunken eyes, notes wei shi.
he was in a baby carrier with eric, who was picking up breakfast for the family, and on that one trip, at least three people stopped to ask about the spectacles.
"i just got annoyed and walked away," recalls eric, who also felt sad.
"at that point in time, we'd accepted it .
.
.
but it's generally not so easy to just start telling people and open up about it.
"last month, when elliot received his first cane — a blue, child-sized one — the emotions hit home again.
"we're not ashamed of him.
and we know that the best thing to do is to get him used to walking with a cane so he can be independent as soon as possible," says eric.
"but when people can easily tell he's visually impaired .
.
.
i don't feel i'm ready to go out there and explain yet.
"raising awarenesswei shi says that before her son came along, she had never interacted closely with a visually impaired person, let alone be friends with one.
in parenting elliot, she and eric have grown more socially aware.
they began noticing little things that could help a blind person to navigate through society.
not all public buses and traffic lights, for example, have audio cues.
even escalators could provide auditory cues for approaching users to inform them of the direction, cites eric.
pre-school education is also a challenge.
the couple began approaching schools a year ahead of their son turning 18 months old.
out of "more than 10 schools", most rejected them, despite the kohs' offer to bring in a vision therapist to guide the teachers on how to work with elliot.
"the reason they gave is along the lines of .
.
.
'we're afraid we don't know how to take care of the baby properly,'" he says.
"i understand this from their perspective .
.
.
liability is something no company would want to have.
but we just wanted them to be a little more understanding and inclusive.
"eventually, they found a school willing to help them.
"compared to 10 years ago, when there was less awareness of the needs of the special needs community, today's society has made great progress," he adds.
"but obviously, as a parent, i hope more can be done.
"wei shi is doing her part with an instagram account she created in september to document elliot's developmental milestones and the various ways she helps him learn.
the account, @blindandshine, has more than 1,500 followers.
she has also attracted some collaborations with brands.
"i don't want any other pair of parents to feel the helplessness that we felt should the same thing happen to them," she says.
she can also advocate for elliot at a pragmatic level, for example after he received three sets of braille blocks for christmas.
these well-intentioned gifts were the likely result of a google search for "braille toys", she says.
"(but) people have the misunderstanding that maybe he can't play with normal toys," wei shi adds.
"he can, just maybe he needs adaptations.
"she knew, however, where they were coming from — she had once been in their shoes.
"i had preconceived thoughts, not because i'm an elitist but simply because of a lack of awareness.
and nobody told me these things," she says.
love is blindthe change the couple have undergone in their lives in the past year has been both unexpected and dramatic.
every month, however, they still take a family photo, their camera set up on a tripod as they coax elliot to face forward.
"he always looks down," says wei shi.
"it's not meaningful for him because he doesn't know why we're pausing.
"but each photo is lovingly saved, not so much for him to enjoy in future but for his parents to look back on as he grows.
just visible in the background of one of the photos on their wall is a pegboard with the words "today's brew", mimicking the look of a cafe.
today, the board stands on the television console, unmissable as one enters their home — and it reads "love's blind".
because the love within the family, as wei shi says, comes from the heart rather than by sight.
they still grieve over what could have been, but it is not a case of "oh, we're so sad", says eric.
"we didn't know this was going to happen.
but looking at his growth and happiness, we're just as happy taking care of him as any other parent would be of their child.
"to mark each milestone in elliot's life, such as his first birthday or when he got his first cane, eric also takes out a recorder and documents the moment with his voice.
"today, people will know your story, and you'll inspire many people," eric talks away into the recorder.
"you want to be an influencer and earn money?
be a politician?
also can. "
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
heart conditions associated with the covid-19 mrna vaccines are extremely rare and it remains unclear if the vaccines are responsible for them, experts told the straits times after a handful of cases raised some concerns.
six individuals here were reported to have suffered myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart) after getting an mrna vaccine, among whom four are young men less than 30 years old.
the other two are a man and a woman both aged above 40. the health sciences authority (hsa) said most of the cases had occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine, and that all have recovered or been discharged well from hospital.
the united states and israel two major users of the mrna vaccines have also reported a slightly increased risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men after the second dose of mrna vaccination.
but there is no need to be overly concerned as these events are rare, experts said.
professor ooi eng eong, an expert on emerging infectious diseases at duke-nus medical school, said it also remains unclear if it is indeed mrna vaccines causing these adverse events and how vaccination could have resulted in them.
as at june 7, more than 1,888,000 people in singapore have received both doses of mrna vaccines by either pfizer biontech or moderna.
an article last friday by the american academy of paediatrics cited a rate of 16 cases of myocarditis/pericarditis per million second doses in people aged 16 to 39 years old.
such inflammation of the heart was also reported in some covid-19 patients last year, most likely the result of an overactive immune system giving rise to the inflammation.
vaccine maker moderna issued a statement last friday stating that it is aware of reports of such cases after people took its vaccine, but added that it has not established a causal association with its vaccine after carefully reviewing the available safety data to date.
as mrna vaccines lead to a similar, but milder, immune response, they could also give rise to inflammation, said prof ooi.
"but these cases, if indeed caused by the vaccine, will be much fewer compared with covid-19-induced heart inflammation ones.
"it is also important to note that the occurrence of some rare events is natural for any vaccine, especially when large numbers have been vaccinated, he stressed.
"no other vaccine has come under the scrutiny as covid-19 vaccines.
in about six months, over 1.
5 billion people have been vaccinated under close observation," he added.
he said it is unclear why young men may be more susceptible, and that it is difficult to conduct the necessary studies to determine a correlation.
"nonetheless, we can expect more detailed description of what happens to these cases in the coming months, from those that have been treated in the us and israel.
the picture may become clearer then.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                the permaisuri zarith sofiah opera house (foreground on right) sits by under-construction high-rise condominiums in the southern malaysian state of johor bahru, as seen from singapore, afp
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                malaysia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                s. iswaran
                                                                ,
                                                                                                wee ka siong
                                                                ,
                                                                                                border



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
drunk and falling asleep, sy yong da, 26, was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a woman who was walking along a sheltered footpath in farrer road.
but instead of stopping, sy drove home and had his car towed to a workshop to cover up what he had done.
the victim was a domestic worker, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, who was later found dead at the scene.
she was married and had two sons, aged eight and 19, in the philippines.
yesterday, sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
two other charges of failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
ms ocampo was on her way home from the market at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, when sy, driving a silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on the 70kmh road, veered across two lanes and crashed into the footpath.
ms ocampo was flung into a pillar.
sy got back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
when he got home to his condo in spanish village, he called a towing company and had his car towed to a workshop in kaki bukit at about 7.
30am.
it took five investigation officers to track him down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder, at the scene.
when questioned, sy took the officers to the workshop.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash.
he had also taken a female friend for a meal and driven her home at about 5.
35am.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?at a time of frequent geopolitical friction among those three powers, washington and brussels want to avoid this scenario by investing in the market for 17 minerals with unique properties that today are largely extracted and refined in china.
"the expected exponential growth in demand for minerals that are linked to clean energy is putting more pressure on us and europe to take a closer look at where the vulnerabilities are and the concrete steps these governments can take," said jane nakano, a senior fellow at the washington-based center for strategic and international studies.
in 2019, the united states imported 80 percent of its rare earth minerals from china, the us geological survey says.
the european union gets 98 percent of its supply from china, the european commission said last year.
amid the transition to green energy in which rare earth minerals are sure to play a role, china's market dominance is enough to sound an alarm in western capitals.
cars and turbines -rare earth minerals with names like neodymium, praseodymium and dysprosium are crucial to the manufacture of magnets used in industries of the future like wind turbines and electric cars.
and they are already present in consumer goods such as smartphones, computer screens and telescopic lenses.
others have more traditional uses, like cerium for glass polishing and lanthanum for car catalysts or optical lenses.
this week the us senate passed a law aimed at improving american competitiveness that includes provisions to improve critical minerals supply chains, following a similar executive order issued by president joe biden in february.
washington aims to boost production and processing of rare earths and lithium, another key mineral component, while "working with allies and partners to increase sustainable global supply and reduce reliance on geopolitical competitors," deputy director of the national economic council sameera fazili said tuesday.
boosting us production -the best hope for boosting american production can be found at the mountain pass mine in california.
once one of the major players in the sector, the mine suffered as china rose and ate up its market share, aided by beijing's heavy government subsidies.
mp materials relaunched the mine in 2017 and aims to make it a symbol of america's industrial rebirth, saying the concentration of rare earths at its site is one of the world's largest and highest-grade rare earth deposits, with soil concentrations of seven percent versus 0.
1 to four percent elsewhere.
the company's aim is to separate rare earth minerals from each other via a chemical process, and then by 2025 manufacture the magnets that industry uses -- as market-leading chinese firms currently do.
the project was supported by the us government, while a chinese firm is a minority shareholder.
elsewhere, australian company lynas has won several contracts in the united states, including an ore refinery in texas for the military that was supported by the defense department.
complications for europe -in europe, bernd schafer, ceo and managing director of rare earth mineral consortium eit raw materials, said this month that an "action plan" will soon be presented to the european commission on how to boost production.
europe, however, faces a more complicated path to achieving this goal, said david merriman, a specialist in batteries and electric cars for london-based consultancy roskill.
"europe is expected to rely on importing raw materials or semi-processed materials and become more a processing base or recycling base," he said.
china is expected to remain dominant for some time to come, but schafer said that if recycling is scaled up, "20 to 30 percent of europe's rare earth magnet needs by 2030 could be sourced domestically in the eu from literally zero today.
"the desire to accelerate rare earth production comes amid a shortage of semiconductors, which are essential for the computing and automotive industries and mostly manufactured in asia.
the scarcity "has caused global manufacturers to think about their supply chain in a new way, and think about vulnerabilities," a spokesman for mp materials said, adding that several european automotive and wind power firms are already in contact with the company.
alb/cs/dwit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resistmalaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
moscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yeartwo strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
as nuclear nations commit to renewing and sometimes expanding their arsenals, a decline seen since the early 1990s seems to have stalled, with some signs of a numerical increase, researchers said monday
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore businesses are gearing up to welcome more customers, with the easing of covid-19 restrictions from monday (june 14), which includes an increase in the cap on social group sizes from two to five.
some are looking forward to welcoming more families for the remainder of the june school holidays.
the ministry of health said last week that singapore will gradually reopen in two steps, after earlier strict measures that were put in place to curb a worrying spike in covid-19 cases.
the first step of reopening on monday will see operating capacity limits for attractions, cruises, museums and public libraries go up from 25 per cent to 50 per cent.
the size limits for events such as movie screenings, worship services and marriage solemnisations will also be increased.
pre-event testing will be required for events with more than 50 attendees.
in the second step, slated to take place from next monday, dining in for groups of up to five may be allowed.
orchard hotel singapore said it saw a 40 per cent increase in website traffic following the government's announcement last thursday on the easing of measures.
mr greg allan, vice-president of south-east asia operations for millennium hotels and resorts, which runs orchard hotel, said: "with two weeks left to the school holiday, many families are keen to book staycations so the lifting of precautionary measures is certainly a welcome move.
"the hotel has worked with vendors to launch activities targeted at families, he added.
these include dim sum cooking classes and virtual reality game experiences.
sneakpeek singapore, which organises walking, hiking and kayaking tours, said it is preparing for larger groups, such as readying more kayaks.
it added: "operationally, it will be much easier, less taxing, and less logistically complex to operate tours with sub-groups of five people instead of two.
"during phase two (heightened alert), there was little confidence to make bookings, even for after june 13, but now people are.
.
.
booking tours for dates that are further away.
"other organisations such as wildlife reserves singapore and dream cruises have said they will increase their maximum capacity in line with what is allowed.
the loosened restrictions will also benefit the likes of kitten sanctuary singapore, a non-profit animal welfare group for cats.
executive director jessica seet said the group will now be able to accept more visitors and allow more volunteers to help out.
"visitors are our lifeline to cover (the various) costs for rescued cats and kittens.
.
.
so the easing of restrictions helps us to stay afloat," said ms seet.
the islamic religious council of singapore said on saturday that four mosques will pilot the use of an extra zone in order to offer more spaces for friday prayers on june 25. in a facebook post on sunday evening, prime minister lee hsien loong thanked the public for observing the tightened measures this past month.
"if all goes well, we should be able to open up further by next week," he said.
"in the new normal, such disruptions will happen from time to time, but we can still carry on with our lives.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — the ministry of health (moh) on sunday (13 june) confirmed 13 new cases of covid-19 infection in singapore, taking the country's total case count to 62,276. of the new cases, 10 are community transmissions with eight linked to past cases, said moh in a news release.
five of the community cases have already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance.
the remaining two community cases are unlinked.
there are no new cases from the migrant worker dormitories.
moh also reported three imported cases, all of whom have been placed on stay-home notice since their arrival in singapore.
of the 13 new cases, seven are asymptomatic, and were detected from screening and surveillance, while six were symptomatic.
overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 116 cases in the week before to 36 cases in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has also fallen from 17 cases in the week before to 15 cases in the past week.
the two unlinked cases are a 23-year-old fully vaccinated male india national who works as a nursing aide at all saints home (hougang) and a 27-year-old male india national who works as an engineer at ecoxplore.
the latter case is the source of a new cluster named after his case number.
there are four cases linked to the new cluster.
they are:a 50-year-old bangladeshi man who is employed by theng liang lee services as a conservancy worker at 115 bukit merah view market & food centre.
a 72-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and works at a sundry shop at the location.
a 67-year-old singaporean woman who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
a 65-year-old singaporean man who is fully vaccinated and a food stall vendor at the location.
the food centre is closed to all members of the public for three days from sunday to 15 june, as moh's epidemiological investigations have found that there is likely ongoing transmission among individuals who work at the location.
all staff and tenants who have been working at the location from 25 may have been placed on quarantine, and will be tested during quarantine.
in order to disrupt any wider, undetected community transmission, moh will conduct special testing operations for all staff and tenants who have been working in 116 bukit merah view from 25 may.
moh will also extend free covid-19 testing to members of the public who had visited the shops at 115 and 116 bukit merah view between 25 may and 12 june.
there are two new cases linked to the cluster, named after the case number of the 27-year-old male india national who works at ecoxplore.
they are a 19-year-old singaporean woman who works as a warehouse assistant at dhl express (singapore) and a 39-year-old singaporean woman who is employed by cleen first services as a cleaner at emerald park condominium.
both are household contacts and family members to each another.
they are household contacts of the male india national.
two cases are linked and not part of a cluster.
one of them is a 59-year-old singaporean woman who works as a part-time cleaner at crystal lodge and is a close contact of a previous case.
the other is a 66-year-old singaporean man who is a retiree, and a family member of a previous case.
of the three imported cases, two are singapore permanent residents who returned from india, and one is a work permit holder who arrived from indonesia and is a foreign domestic worker.
with 31 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on sunday, 61,869 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 130 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 243 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 80 confirmed cases reported from 7 to 13 june, 44 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 27 have tested negative, and nine serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporemore singapore stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
by joseph lee & becky mortonbbc newsleaders of the major industrial nations have pledged one billion covid vaccine doses to poor countries as a "big step towards vaccinating the world", boris johnson has said.
at the end of the g7 summit in cornwall, the pm said countries were rejecting "nationalistic approaches".
he said vaccinating the world would show the benefits of the g7's democratic values.
there was also a pledge to wipe out their contribution to climate change.
after the first meeting of world leaders in two years, mr johnson said "the world was looking to us to reject some of the selfish, nationalistic approaches that marred the initial global response to the pandemic and to channel all our diplomatic, economic and scientific might to defeating covid for good".
he said the g7 leaders had pledged to supply the vaccines to poor countries either directly or through the world health organization's covax scheme including 100 million from the uk.
the communique issued by the summit pledges to "end the pandemic and prepare for the future by driving an intensified international effort, starting immediately, to vaccinate the world by getting as many safe vaccines to as many people as possible as fast as possible".
it also includes steps to tackle climate change, with leaders re-committing to the target of reaching net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 at the latest and pledging to eliminate most coal power.
mr johnson rejected suggestions the vaccines pledge was a moral failure by the g7 as it was not enough to cover the needs of poorer countries.
he referred to the the uk's involvement in the development of the oxford-astrazeneca vaccine.
"already of the 1.
5 billion vaccines that have been distributed around the world, i think that people in this country should be very proud that half a billion of them are as a result of the actions taken by the uk government in doing that deal with the oxford scientists and astrazeneca to distribute it at cost," he said.
he added that "we are going flat out and we are producing vaccines as fast as we can, and distributing them as fast as we can".
the target to vaccinate the world by the end of next year would be met "very largely thanks to the efforts of the countries who have come here today", mr johnson said.
the leaders slightly exceeded their target of donating a billion covid vaccines to poorer countries within the next year, if funding for future doses is included alongside individual jabs.
there was also a commitment to build the frameworks to prevent and fight future pandemics.
elsewhere in the 25-page communique, there were several references to china, which president biden said was a change from previous meetings of the world's advanced economies.
pledges made this time included working together to respond to china's impact on world trade.
on the recovery from covid there was even a reference to prime minister boris johnson's trademark domestic policy the need to reduce inequalities by "levelling up".
charities and campaigners issued statements calling out vague promises and missed opportunities, but mr johnson will feel that post-brexit britain has staged a diplomatic show that was both competent and confident.
mr johnson also dismissed the suggestion that patents for vaccines should be waived in order to boost global supply, something which the us backed last month.
he said he wanted to protect "incentives for innovation" while building up manufacturing capacity, especially in africa.
elsewhere in their communique, g7 leaders also pledged to: the communique calls for a "timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based who-convened" investigation into the origins of covid-19.
us president joe biden has previously said the us intelligence community is split on whether coronavirus came from human contact with an infected animal or from a lab accident a theory rejected by china.
mr johnson said "the advice that we've had is it doesn't look as though this particular disease of zoonotic origin came from a lab", but he added: "clearly anybody sensible would want to keep an open mind about that".
french president emmanuel macron said the international community needed clarity about the origins of the virus but said it was up to the who to investigate.
with g7 countries accounting for 20% of carbon emissions, mr johnson said: "we were clear this weekend that action needs to start with us.
"but pressed on the lack of binding agreements and timetables, the prime minister says he will not "pretend our work is done" and he will be "on everybody's case" to make further progress ahead of the cop26 summit in scotland later this year.
kirsty mcneill from crack the crises, a coalition of charities and ngos including save the children and oxfam, said the g7 summit was a "historic missed opportunity" on covid-19 and climate change.
leaders arrived "with good intentions but without their cheque books", she said.
joanna rea, from unicef uk, said the g7 pledge on vaccines was "the beginning of the action required to end this pandemic" but called for a "rapid acceleration of dose sharing in the next three months to ensure millions of vaccines get to the people in countries who need them the most".
how significant are g7's climate pledges?in pictures: world leaders bask in cornwall sun at g7 summitg7 pledges climate action but disappoints activistsisrael's new pm bennett vows to unite nationhis pledge comes as his government is voted in, ending benjamin netanyahu's 12-year hold on power.
lockdown easing in england to be delayedg7 leaders promise one billion vaccine doseswhat putin really wants from bidenhow chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race'we make it or we die' video'we make it or we die'netanyahu: a shrewd leader who reshaped israeltech firms use remote monitoring to help honey beeswhat happened when the soviets tried to dig to the centre of the earth?the rebels working with islamic state in central africaformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star.
videoformer farmer, 84, is accidental asmr youtube star'i lost my father and pregnant wife to covid'football phrases15 sayings from around the worldlockdown easing in england to be delayed1israel's new pm bennett vows to unite nation2what putin really wants from biden3whatsapp launches privacy campaign after backlash4china to g7: small groups do not rule the world5queen meets joe biden at windsor castle6how chinaâs youth are shunning the rat race7thousands join protests against catalan pardons8swiss voters reject key climate change measures9eriksen suffered cardiac arrest doctor10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
singapore (edgeprop) lego-style modular construction or prefabricated prefinished volumetric construction (ppvc) was intended to wean singapore's construction sector from its dependence on a foreign workforce.
it is faster, more efficient and environmentally friendly compared to conventional construction.
(see also: covid-19 catalyses digitalisation in construction)however, even ppvc specialists have not been spared the ravages of the covid pandemic.
they have been just as affected by the travel ban on long-term pass holders from india and bangladesh due to a surge in covid infections.
this immediately cut off the supply of construction workers from the two main source countries.
the ppvc method does not require as many workers onsite compared to a conventional construction site.
(picture: samuel isaac chua/the edge singapore)"based on my experience, the construction industry is facing a 20%-30% shortage in foreign manpower, and the situation is aggravated by the tighter border controls," says khor yew chai, director (ppvc) at dragages singapore, a member of bouygues constrution, a global leader in the building sector.
under the ppvc method, frameworks and modules are built in a factory off-site.
"we still need workers in these factories to produce the modules," adds khor.
"the difference is that with ppvc, we do not require as many workers onsite compared to a conventional construction site.
"dragages' modules are built in a factory located in johor, malaysia, before being transported to a factory in singapore to be assembled.
however, most of the construction materials are imported from overseas, especially china, notes khor.
"the rise in costs of sea transport and raw materials since last year is a challenge for contractors trying to complete their projects on schedule," he adds.
lego-style assembly onsite.
(picture: samuel isaac chua/the edge singapore)dragages is not alone.
many of the precast components are manufactured in malaysia, notes tan cheng chuah, managing director of construction professionals and pm link, two companies under cpg corp, a professional development consultancy firm.
malaysia entered a 14-day covid "total lockdown" with effect from june 1 to contain its daily infections.
it has since been extended by another two weeks to june 28.
"the initial movement control order and the current full movement control order have impacted the completion timelines for ongoing projects in singapore as precast factories in malaysia have to stop production and deliveries," continues tan.
"the result is that overall tender prices for construction projects have escalated by 20%-30% over the past year.
"productivity at construction sites has dropped due to the safe management measures (smm) introduced as part of the phase two (heightened alert) measures put in place from may 16 to june 13. the government is aware of the manpower shortage and subsequent knock-on effects on ongoing infrastructure and development projects.
in a speech at the orangetee business conference on may 24, the minister for national development, desmond lee, said: "[the tighter border controls] has significantly worsened manpower shortages in our construction sector, as south asian countries are where we recruit and hire most of our construction work permit holders.
"this is a double-blow for the construction industry, which had already been struggling with a manpower crunch since the start of the pandemic last year.
"we have been cautious in reopening our borders and have also been careful in bringing in migrant workers, to reduce the risk of importing the virus," adds lee.
"it's a difficult trade-off.
"the minister for national development, desmond lee, speaking at ​the orangetee business conference on may 24.
(picture: orangetee)last year, the government introduced a $1.
36 billion construction support package to help contractors bear part of the additional costs they had to incur due to construction delays and smm.
the government has stepped in with more support measures, including an additional 49-day extension for public-sector construction projects on top of the 122-day extension under the covid-19 (temporary measures) act, or cotma, last year.
contractors who have been awarded contract sums of up to $100 million will receive 0.
1% of the awarded contract sum for every month of delay as payment for non-manpower-related qualifying costs under cotma.
foreign worker levy rebates for work permit holders will be increased from $90 per worker per month to $250 per worker per month, from may to december 2021. to alleviate the manpower crunch, the government will temporarily allow new construction work-permit holders from china to enter singapore to work first and take their skills certification tests locally instead of in china.
"governmental support measures such as the jobs support scheme helped to a certain extent as they covered about 15%-20% of manpower cost.
in addition, the ex-gratia payment from the government for supporting material and equipment [purchases] also helped contractors," says chuck kho, deputy ceo of cpg consultants, which is part of cpg corp. kho: some of cpg consultants' clients have preferred to delay tenders due to concerns over funding, cost escalations, labour shortage, and the prolonged environment of heightened risk and uncertainty.
(picture: cpg corp. )a cotma law has been amended to allow construction companies in singapore to apply to the authorities for adjustments to contract sums so that project partners will more equitably share the burden of increased foreign manpower costs due to the covid pandemic.
"this is to ensure no single stakeholder group in the construction industry bears an undue share of the burden imposed by covid-19," said minister lee in parliament on may 11.
"the co-sharing mechanisms involve some documentation process and substantiation of the qualifying costs," says dragages' khor.
"the catch is that all parties involved — contractors, including subcontractors and suppliers — must have the same objective of sharing the cost.
"dragages has six ongoing projects in singapore, and is focused on completing four of them by the end of the year, for instance, the 613-unit condominium project, the garden residence; the 805-unit condominium, park colonial; and the grade-a office development, capitaspring.
khor yew chai, director (ppvc) at dragages singapore, a member of bouygues constrution, a global leader in the building sector.
ppvc specialists have not been spared the ravages of the covid pandemic.
(picturel dragages singapore)most ongoing construction projects in singapore however, are facing delays of between six and 12 months, says cpg consultants' kho.
further delays are likely, he cautions, "as overlapping problems cause a ripple effect across the industry".
for instance, some of cpg consultants' clients have preferred to delay tenders due to concerns over funding, cost escalations, labour shortage, and the prolonged environment of heightened risk and uncertainty, says kho.
for firms engaged in the built environment, the main cost component in project prolongation is inevitably manpower, notes tan of construction professionals.
besides more measures on manpower cost-sharing, another way to alleviate the rise in manpower costs is for a more flexible procurement method to cushion the uncertainty due to covid, he adds.
instead of an all-cost-inclusive construction tender or consultancy tender, for example, public agencies may consider including a provisional sum for costs that cannot be estimated or foreseeable in the short term, such as the costs of swab tests, prolongation costs, and the costs of implementation of mandatory smm, tan suggests.
tan: one option to solve the foreign worker crunch is to train a pool of local skilled workers to reduce the reliance on foreign labour.
(picture: cpg corp. )the covid-related construction delays is taking a toll on the finances of developers and contractors.
"if these delays are prolonged, it is likely that some of the smaller developers may face serious cashflow issues," warns chia ngiang hong, president of the real estate developers' association of singapore (redas).
one issue that most, if not all, developers are concerned about is the additional buyer's stamp duty (absd).
since the july 2018 property cooling measures, developers are subjected to a 30% absd, of which 5% is non-remittable.
developers were given a 12-month extension to the five-year project completion period last year, as part of cotma.
however, the absd period was only extended by six months, to 5.
5 years.
most of the government assistance to the industry, including the reprieve to the completion deadline, was handed out close to the onset of the pandemic last year, says redas' chia.
"if developers continue to face the threat of having to pay heavy penalties with regard to the absd on land cost, they will likely adopt a more conservative attitude when negotiating with contractors," he adds.
an extension of the developers' absd period will provide relief from "the time pressure" that developers and their contractors face, continues chia.
most ongoing construction projects in singapore are facing delays of between six and 12 months.
further delays are likely, as overlapping problems cause a ripple effect across the industry.
(picture: samuel isaac chua/the edge singapore)"the reality is that there is no easy solution while most singaporeans are not inclined to switch to manual labour professions, whether skilled or not," says cpg consultants' kho.
despite rapid technological advancements taking place in the construction sector, robotics and automation cannot completely displace workers — "at least not in the next 10 years", says construction professionals' tan.
one option to solve the foreign worker crunch is to train a pool of local skilled workers to reduce the reliance on foreign labour, adds tan.
adequate training and remuneration should be sufficient to entice local skilled construction workers to enter and stay in the industry, he argues.
"this should go hand in hand with the widespread adoption of ppvc technology and digitalisation as a long-term solution for singapore's built environment.
"check out the latest listings near the garden residence, park colonialsee also:singapore property for sale & rent, latest property news, advanced analytics toolsnew launch condo & landed property in singapore (complete list & updates)construction industry stakeholders call for safe and controlled entry of foreign workers[update] capacity limits for visitors to project sales galleries, resale propertiesbiomimicry: when nature and tech work togetheren bloc calculator, find out if your condo will be the next en-blochdb resale flats up for sale, affordable units availablethe national petroleum corporation of namibia ("namcor") and reconnaissance energy africa ltd.  (the "company" or "reconafrica") (tsxv: reco) (otcqx: recaf) (frankfurt: 0xd) are pleased to announce the execution of a joint operating agreement ("joa") to develop the resource potential of the kavango sedimentary basin, northeast namibia.
vancouver, british columbia and irvine, calif. , june 14, 2021 (globe newswire) -- powertap hydrogen capital corp.  (neo: move)(fwb: 2k6)(otc: motnf) ("powertap" or the "company" or "move") is pleased to announce that, further to its announcement on june 7, 2021, the company has completed its name change to "powertap hydrogen capital corp. ", effective as of the date hereof.
this name change is in conjunction with the company's transition to a single purpose hydrogen fueling technology company, prewall street legend whitney tilson says there's a huge new tech trend coming – and he's giving away his top pick for free right here.
monsters or a must?
venice tussles with return of cruise shipsthe arrival of the msc orchestra has rekindled tensions over the pros and cons of the giant vessels the msc orchestra, the first cruise ship to visit venice in 18 months, sails out of the city.
photograph: miguel medina/afp/getty imagesbiden already attended a summit of g7 rich democracies in britain over the weekend.
he will next join a meeting of nato national leaders in brussels on june 14, where he will meet turkish president tayyip erdogan.
that will be followed by a summit on june 15 with top eu officials in the bloc's political hub.
biden has vowed to rebuild relations with allies after four rocky years under former president donald trump, who pulled washington out of a global pact to fight climate change and threatened at one point to quit nato.
myanmar has been in turmoil since the junta seized power on feb.  1 and detained suu kyi and other senior members of her party, unleashing daily protests and fighting between the armed forces and ethnic minority guerrilla forces and militias.
suu kyi, 75, is due to face trial on monday on charges of breaching coronavirus regulations while campaigning for the election she won last november and also for possession of unlicensed walkie-talkies.
nobel laureate suu kyi also faces other more serious charges including intent to incite, breaching the official secrets act and charges for accepting $600,000 and 11.
4 kg worth of gold from yangon's former chief minister.
hiring the wrong financial advisor can wreak havoc on your investments and ruin your retirement.
however, this new tool is changing everything.
implementing a water-based parts washer from parts washer division of vital manufacturing into a parts washing operations is an excellent strategy to reduce environmental footprint.
surrey, british columbia, canada, june 13, 2021 (globe newswire) -- implementing a water-based parts washer from parts washer division of vital manufacturing inc.  into the operation of a business is an excellent strategy to reduce environmental footprint.
remove the grease, grime, and oil build up of necessary parts nformer australia captain boyd cordner has retired from rugby league because of the concussion symptoms that have kept him on the sidelines since last november.
cordner, who had his 29th birthday last week, announced his decision to retire on monday, days after abandoning his latest plan to return to the national rugby league for an 11th season with the sydney roosters.
the nrl has launched a severe crackdown on high tackles this season, resulting in record numbers of players being cautioned, sent off or suspended.
joe biden to use nato summit to atone for damage of trump yearsomens are favourable, but experts warn previous four years will have lasting consequences joe biden and nato's secretary general, jens stoltenberg, pictured in 2015.  photograph: michaela rehle/reutersthis small company behind it is sparking a potential 20,300% market surge.
click here for details.
gold prices slipped on monday to their lowest in more than a week, weighed down by a stronger dollar, while investors awaited cues from the federal reserve policy meeting this week with recent spikes in u. s.  consumer prices seen as a temporary blip.
spot gold was down 0.
6% at $1,864.
58 per ounce, as of 0311 gmt, its lowest since june 4.
"the market is starting to anticipate maybe a modest pivot towards discussing taper and it's sending investors into more of a either profit-taking or reducing gold and also currency positions," said stephen innes, managing partner at spi asset management.
cheika, who coached the waratahs from 2013 to 2015 and was linked with a return to the role after rob penney was fired in march, said the struggles faced by the team's inexperienced squad will strengthen them in the long run.
"there is a core group of players that are here at the waratahs right now that they need to keep and bring through," cheika told stan sport.
christchurch attacks: producer resigns from film they are us as criticism growsjacinda ardern says subject still feels 'very raw' amid ongoing accusations that film sidelines muslim victims of 2019 massacre jacinda ardern is to be played by rose byrne in the film they are us, about the christchurch mosque attacks in new zealand.
photograph: don arnold/wireimageget a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
matilda castren fired a 65 on sunday, capturing the mediheal championship by two strokes to become the first finnish player to win on the lpga tour.
greek tennis star stefanos tsitsipas has revealed that he learned of his grandmother's death just minutes before his epic five-set french open final loss to novak djokovic on sunday.
here's a list of happenings that are sure to bring a smile to your face, lift your heart and maybe even inspire you to take a positive action yourself!biggest stock market event in 20 years is almost here.
and the next 2 months could decide your wealth in 2021.  here's what to do now.
global shares held firm near record highs on monday while u. s.  bond yields flirted with three-month lows as investors expect the federal reserve to stick to its dovish mantra later this week.
globally, equity markets were basking in the prospects of a broadening economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic and anticipation of continuity in dovish monetary policy from the u. s.  federal reserve.
the msci all-country world equity index, the u. s.  s&p 500 and the pan-regional stoxx europe 600 index all closed at record highs on friday.
certainly, the apprentice: one championship edition lived up to its billing as the toughest iteration of the show yet.
sixteen global candidates were subjected to taxing physical tasks and high-stakes business competitions for the better part of the past three months that truly, the best of the best came through and ended with jessica ramella .
.
.
continue reading "the apprentice: one championship edition's success to open more doors, says chatri"biden lavished praise on the 95-year-old british monarch after their private meeting which came at the conclusion of the group of seven leaders' summit at which he called for concerted action on china and ahead of a meeting with putin on wednesday.
"i don't think she'd be insulted but she reminded me of my mother, the look of her and just the generosity," biden, 78, told reporters shortly before departing london.
"she's extremely gracious, that's not surprising, but we had a great talk.
she wanted to know what the two leaders that i -- the one i'm about to meet with, mr putin, and she wanted to know about xi jinping, and we had a long talk.
"the monarch, attired in a bright pink floral outfit, had warmly greeted biden and his wife jill in the quadrangle of the castle, home to the royal family for nearly 1,000 years, where they were treated to a taste of british pomp.
the president inspected a guard of honour formed of the queen's company first battalion grenadier guards, which gave a royal salute, and the u. s.  national anthem was played before they entered the castle for tea.
"i said i wish we could stay longer, maybe we could hold the cars up a minute, and stuff.
anyway, she was very gracious," said the president who confirmed he had invited the monarch to the white house.
if you pay more than $99/month for power and own a home in texas, you better read this.
dubai earned a reputation for delivering luxury for those with cash to splash years ago, but amid the covid-19 pandemic, a new mode of travel has become popular -- yachts.
columbus, ohio, jun 14, 2021--washington prime group inc.  (nyse: wpg) today announced that it and certain of its subsidiaries have filed voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code in the united states bankruptcy court for the southern district of texas (the "bankruptcy court").
the company enters chapter 11 after executing a restructuring support agreement (the "rsa") with creditors, led by svpglobal, that hold approximately 73% of the principal amount odenver had no answer for chris paul.

                    sunday, 13 jun 2021
                kota kinabalu: abu sayyaf sub commander injam yadahm, who is linked to cross-border kidnappings in sabah has been killed by philippines security forces.
also killed in a shootout at 2am sunday (june 13) was al-al sawadjaan, the younger brother of abu sayyaf sub-commander mundi sawadjaan, who was responsible for the jolo cathedral bombings two years ago.
the two were among four killed by the philippines military as they continued the pursuit for abu sayyaf leaders and foot soldiers, many of whom are linked to the notorious sawadjaan family, known to be holding kidnap victims at their patikul base in jolo island.
the two others killed in the sunday morning shootout have yet to be identified.
with the noose tightening on the group, intelligence sources said their numbers have been dwindling, with less than 50 active members as the rest have either been killed or run off since philippines president rodrigo duterte ordered an all-out war against abu sayyaf.
philippines joint task force (jtf) for sulu major gen william n.  gonzales said that they went into the area to serve a warrant to yadah at his house but were met with gunfire.
they also recovered a m653 carbine rifle, a.
45 calibre pistol, improvised explosive device components and 15 mobile phones.
yadah, who has also been involved in beheadings, has long been hunted by the philippines military.
he was a key player in the kidnap of five indonesian nationals taken from malaysian waters in january 2020.  the kidnap victims were rescued in tawi-tawi earlier this year.
tags / keywords:
abu sayyaf
                                                                ,
                                                                                                injam yadah
                                                                ,
                                                                                                philippines
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cross-border kidnapping



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a few hours before his final episode of running man aired on sunday (june 13), cast member lee kwang-soo posted a message on social media to his fans.
"thank you for running with me for 11 years," the 35-year-old actor-host wrote in his post, accompanied by photos of him with a bouquet of flowers, a cake and a certificate of completion.
lee had announced in april that he was leaving the wildly popular variety show due to an ankle injury he had sustained last year.
as he was one of the original cast members, the production team took pains to return to the same locations where running man had started filming in july 2010. another original cast member, comedian jee seok-jin, said: "even the staff members are sad for kwang-soo's final recording.
let's talk about him a lot today.
"lee then retorted: "you didn't say anything while we weren't recording, but as soon as the cameras turned on, you came out with that line ready.
"another cast member, yoo jae-suk, said jokingly: "you should rethink your decision.
if you say right now, 'i'm sorry', viewers would understand.
they'd think, 'that rascal', laugh and move on.
"he later added more seriously: "it will feel empty without you, but you should do all the things that you wanted to do now without worrying about us.
"singer kim jong-kook, who has also been with the show from the start, said: "it felt like we would go on like this forever without changing.
the regret is even stronger because it's kwang-soo, with whom i thought i would go until the end.
"even though we aren't able to go on with running man together anymore, let's go for the rest of our lives together.
"those who had worked with him behind the scenes also shared their fond memories of him on social media.
former producer-director lee hwan-jin posted on instagram on sunday: "from what i remember, kwang-soo never once told the producers 'no'.
"from continuing to film even when he had a broken toe to being soaked with water in the middle of winter while suffering from a cold, his dedication was noted by his co-workers over the course of filming 559 episodes.
another former producer-director jung chul-min wrote: "he always thought about the programme and his career rather than himself and showed such professionalism.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
sydney: australia's victoria state expects to announce a further easing of covid-19 restrictions this week, acting premier james merlino said on sunday (jun 13), as the state reported one new locally acquired infection for a second straight day.
the latest infection was a close contact of a previously reported case and had already been quarantined, victoria's health department said.
victoria recorded 92 cases in its latest wave of covid-19 infections, which triggered a two-week snap lockdown late last month.
the state emerged from the lockdown on friday as new cases declined, but some physical distancing rules remain.
"my expectation is by later in the week, we will be in a position to announce further easing of restrictions for regional victoria and .
.
.
for metropolitan melbourne," merlino said.
merlino added he was keen to get people back to attending sporting events and theatre, though he had no announcement to make yet in that regard.
under existing curbs, melbourne residents can only travel up to 25km from home while outdoor gatherings are limited to 10 people.
masks are required indoors and outdoors at all public spaces.
more than 3,000 primary close contacts of infected cases are already in quarantine with about 122 exposure sites listed on the victorian government website.
australia has fared much better than many other developed countries during the pandemic, with more than 22,300 local covid-19 cases and 910 deaths since march last year, mostly in victorian aged-care homes.
snap lockdowns, internal border controls and tough social distancing rules have helped it contain prior outbreaks.
new south wales and neighbouring queensland are on high alert after an infected woman and her husband travelled from victoria through several country towns in both states.
with no new cases on sunday, new south wales has not reported any locally acquired infection in more than a month, while queensland last reported cases in late march.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
dunk baitthe rushposted upmad betsthe bandwagonold baseball cardsposted upchris haynesyahoo sports college podcastdan wetzel, pat forde, pete thamelyahoo fantasy football podcastliz loza & matt harmonfantasy baseball podcastscott pianowskinfl podcastcharles robinson & terez paylorby sakura murakamitokyo (reuters) tokyo olympic organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organisers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organisers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organisers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)the first u. s.  swimmers qualified for the tokyo games at olympic trials on sunday.
four-time olympic medalist david boudia was 4.
45 points short of another games.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
california officials had argued that trump's decision to cancel funding for rail project "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion.
"it was definitely not big baby's finest moment.
"i feel like a new person.
doctors who haven't rotated in the icu in a while don't recognize me.
"get a $200 checking bonus when you apply for an eligible checking account online in minutes with qualifying direct deposits.
learn more.
the squad, a group of four us representatives that are women of color, are deeply unpopular among conservatives, so the attacks could help raise funds.
swimmer kaylee mckeown says the death of her father 10 months ago inspired her to break the 100-meter backstroke world record on sunday at the australian olympic trials.
the 19-year-old mckeown had a time of 57.
45 seconds at the south australian aquatic centre to improve on the previous mark of 57.
57 set by american regan smith in 2019.   mckeown's father sholto died last august from brain cancer.
ask scary mommy is scary mommy's advice column, where our team of "experts" answers all the questions you have about life, love, body image, friends, parenting, and anything else that's confusing you.
this week .
.
.
are you attracted to people you didn't think you'd be attracted to on your fyp on tiktok?
have your own questions?
[]excessive sleep disorder signs may be more subtle than you think.
check out narcolepsy warning signs and symptoms.
school districts across the united states are hiring additional teachers in anticipation of what will be one of the largest kindergarten classes ever as enrollment rebounds following the coronavirus pandemic.
as they await the arrival next fall of students who sat out the current school year, educators are also bracing for many students to be less prepared than usual due to lower preschool attendance rates.
"the job of the kindergarten teacher just got a lot harder," said steven barnett, senior co-director of the national institute for early education research at rutgers university.
clippers assistant chauncey billups is "definitely ready" to become a head coach, the clippers' tyronn lue said.
billlups might get his chance soon.
a 25-year-old man died sunday of injuries sustained in a mass shooting that wounded 13 other people in downtown austin, texas, the previous day, police confirmed.
driving the news: austin police named the victim as douglas john kantor, as they continued to search for one of two suspects.
one suspect was taken into custody on saturday following the shooting on 6th street, a popular area with bars and restaurants.
stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with axios markets.
substop surgeon and author of the best selling book "dr.  gundry's diet evolution" discovers link between gut health and the rising number on the scale.
boris johnson is set to urge the public to accept "one last heave" to freedom as he delays the final step of lockdown reopening.
on sunday night the prime minister was finalising his plan to push back the june 21 reopening in england by up to four weeks owing to a surge in covid cases.
earlier in the day he had refused to rule out further delays in the future.
it means rules ordering the wearing of face masks, limiting groups to six people indoors and 30 outdoors, and keeping nightclubs shut area large splash can be seen when the ambulance hits the water.
the suspect was able to escape the vehicle and was taken into custody.
during the darkest days of the coronavirus pandemic, martha medina would occasionally slip into her shuttered store on los angeles' oldest street to ensure everything was secure.
colorful folklorico dresses from each of mexico's 32 states lined the walls.
brightly painted dia de los muertos folk art skulls and figurines were safely locked behind a glass case.
looking for a real relationship?
click here to view profiles and meet someone near you.
get started for free!in a recent interview, lonzo ball revealed he would have rather gone straight from high school to the nba rather than attend ucla.
teachers in more than 20 cities gathered to let g. o. p.  lawmakers know that they ain't down with attempts to dictate they can and can't teach in class.
don't add sugar.
sugar bowl via www.
shutterstock.
comchildren are manifesting increased rates of adult diseases like hypertension or high triglycerides.
and they are getting diseases that used to be unheard of in children, like type 2 diabetes and fatty liver disease.
so why is this happening?
everyone assumes this is the result of the obesity epidemic – too many calories in, too few out.
children and adults are getting fat, so they're getting sick.
and it is generally assumed that no one specifisearch for all inclusive resorts in mexico.
find great deals now, save money and timeas other progressives demand biden end bipartisan negotiations, sanders is instead working on the next package.
back in april, he shared the rare image and the story on his social media.
for once, can we consider the whale's side of the story?
carbis bay, england: group of seven (g7) leaders on sunday (jun 13) vowed to start delivering 1 billion doses of covid-19 vaccines and to step up action on climate change, in a summit call to arms by a revived democratic alliance that also confronted china and russia.
in a final communique issued at their first physical summit in nearly two years, the leaders of the elite club largely hewed to us president joe biden's push to regain the west's cohesion after the tumultuous era of his predecessor donald trump.
"we will harness the power of democracy, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights to answer the biggest questions and overcome the greatest challenges," the leaders said.
but the pledge on vaccines for poorer nations fell drastically short of the 11 billion doses that campaigners say are needed to end a pandemic that has claimed nearly 4 million lives and wrecked economies around the globe.
"i'm afraid there will be smiles (at the g7) but they are not solutions," former british prime minister gordon brown told sky news, calling the summit "an unforgivable moral failure".
"millions of people will go unvaccinated and thousands of people i'm afraid will die," said brown, who helped coordinate international responses to the world's last major economic shock in 2008. likewise, the g7's pledges to deliver more aid for countries at the sharp end of climate change, and to phase out fossil fuel investments, were decried as too little, too late ahead of a un summit in november.
"the g7 have failed to set us up for a successful cop26 as trust is sorely lacking between rich and developing countries," said greenpeace international executive director jennifer morgan.
"we need authentic leadership and that means treating the pandemic and the climate crisis for what they are: an interconnected inequality emergency," she said.
"green industrial revolution"nevertheless, british prime minister boris johnson, the summit's host, said the g7 wanted to "drive a global green industrial revolution to transform the way we live".
"there is a direct relationship between reducing emissions, restoring nature, creating jobs and ensuring long-term economic growth," he said.
johnson also touted a g7 pledge to get 40 million more girls into schools over the next five years, as part of the post-pandemic reconstruction.
a white house official agreed the three-day gathering in cornwall, southwest england, had been an "unusually substantive and productive g7".
angela merkel, attending her last g7 as german chancellor, said biden had brought "new momentum" to efforts to tackle the world's problems.
india and south africa, who took part in the g7 talks as guests, had pressed for the gathering to waive intellectual property rights on western vaccines.
but britain and germany were notable holdouts on that.
campaigners also complained the g7 had failed to flesh out how it will pay for a newly agreed "nature compact" to protect 30 per cent of the world's land and oceans from despoliation by 2030. the leaders committed to nearly halve their carbon emissions by 2030, relative to 2010, and to phase out the use of "unabated coal" fuel whose emissions have not gone through any filtering "as soon as possible".
they vowed to end most government support for the fossil fuel sector overseas, and to phase out petrol and diesel cars.
the g7 had sharp words for beijing and moscow, in the build-up to a nato summit in brussels on monday and biden's first sit-down with russian president vladimir putin in switzerland on wednesday.
they demanded china end abuses including forced labour in xinjiang, where activists say up to 1 million people from uyghur and other muslim minorities are interned in camps, and in hong kong.
and they pressed china to let experts from the world health organization (who) investigate further how covid-19 first emerged, amid suspicions that the coronavirus may have escaped from a chinese laboratory.
the allies adopted a us initiative to counter china in infrastructure funding for poorer nations, promising to "collectively catalyse" hundreds of billions of investment.
thebuild back better world (b3w)project is aimed squarely at competing with beijing's trillion-dollar belt and road infrastructure initiative, which has been widely criticised for saddling small countries with unmanageable debt.
and the g7 demanded that russia "credibly explain" the use of chemical agents on its soil, end its "systematic crackdown" on opposition groups and media, and "hold to account" criminals waging ransomware attacks.
royal blessinga lingering row between britain and the european union over post-brexit trading arrangements in northern ireland hung over the talks.
but london sought to bring all sides together using the "soft power" diplomacy of queen elizabeth ii and her heir prince charles, at a friday night reception for leaders and eu chiefs.
joined on saturday by counterparts from australia, south africa and south korea with india also taking part remotely they then enjoyed an evening beach barbecue around fire pits, featuring a sea shanty band and toasted marshmallows.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
taipei: taiwan will be a "force for good" and continue to seek even greater international support, the presidential office said, after the chinese-claimed island won unprecedented backing from the group of seven of major democracies.
the g7 leaders on sunday (jun 13) scolded china over human rights in xinjiang, called for hong kong to keep a high degree of autonomy and underscored the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait.
taiwan presidential office spokesman xavier chang said this was the first time the g7 leaders' communique has stressed the importance of peace and stability in the strait and first time since its founding there was "content friendly to taiwan", expressing deep thanks for the support.
taiwan and g7 member countries share basic values ​​such as democracy, freedom, and human rights, he added.
"taiwan will certainly adhere to its role as a responsible member of the region, and it will also firmly defend the democratic system and safeguard shared universal values," chang said.
taiwan will continue to deepen its partnership with g7 states and other like-minded countries and strive for greater support from the international community, he said.
taiwan will also "firmly contribute the greatest force for good" for peace, stability, and prosperity in the indo-pacific region, chang added.
china has stepped up its pressure against democratically-run taiwan in recent months, with regular military drills near the island as it tries to assert beijing's sovereignty.
while most countries, including g7 members, have no formal diplomatic ties with taiwan, the grouping along with other western allies have been bolstering their backing for the island.
that includes calling for taiwan to be given proper access to the world health organization during the coronavirus pandemic.
taiwan is not a member due to chinese objections, which considers it merely one of its provinces with no right to the trappings of a state.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jakarta jakarta governor anies baswedan has warned that the indonesian capital may return to a strict restriction regime as coronavirus cases surged 50 per cent in the past week amid a rise of infections of the delta variant.
active cases in jakarta rose to 17,400 cases on sunday (june 13) from 11,500 on june 6.
"the capital is in a state that needs extra attention.
if the current situation gets out of hand, we would enter an emergency phase, and if that happened, we would have to take drastic steps like we did in september and february.
we do not want that to recur," mr anies said in a statement on monday morning.
the delta variant, first detected in india, has started to dominate cases in indonesian cities, including jakarta and kudus in central java province, a senior government official, who did not want to be named, told the straits times on sunday night.
health ministry spokesman siti nadia tarmizi told st that the genome sequencing tests on 34 samples collected from kudus showed that 28 of them were of the delta variant.
she did not elaborate.
bed occupancy rate for isolation wards reserved to treat covid-19 patients also increased to 75 per cent on sunday, from 45 per cent a week ago.
one out of four covid-19 patients in jakarta, however comes from outside the city, mostly the surrounding satellite towns.
mr anies urged residents to strictly comply with health protocols in order to avoid another round of strict social distancing restrictions.
currently, dining in in eateries is allowed with limited capacity, and non-essential staff are partially required to work from home.
the governor also stressed that the positivity rate in jakarta increased to 17 per cent on sunday, from 9 per cent the previous week.
the positivity rate indicates the percentage of positive covid-19 cases detected out of the total tests conducted.
the threshold set by the world health organisation (who) for adequate testing is a 5 per cent positivity rate.
mr anies pointed out that the testing rate in jakarta rose to eight times what the world health organisation recommended, from four times in the previous week.
he ordered all his personnel on sunday night to take stricter measures and to step up enforcement of the health protocols on individuals as well as in places.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
ways to search theedgemarkets.
com contentby title: @title "the edge malaysia"by author: @author "lucas wong"by category: @category "corporate" "hot stock" combine search:  "high speed rail" @author "bhattacharjee" @category "from the edge"searching either words : 1mdb mas searching all words : "genting berhad"searching chinese phrase : ""(june 14): asian stocks looked set for a muted start to the week as investors prepare for a key federal reserve meeting.
futures were little changed in japan.
trading volumes are expected to be light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were steady after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
45% after hitting three-month lows on thursday, but still notched their biggest weekly slide since december.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields on the retreat, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
these are some of the main moves in markets:we deliver news to your inbox daily© all rights reserved.
2020.  the edge communications sdn.
bhd.
we're in a position to experiment with methods other than lockdown to stop covid's spread — but it will take courage from authorities.
another lockdown done and dusted.
there must be no more, except in the most desperate of circumstances.
the devastating social impacts and dire economic consequences of forcing businesses to close, stopping kids going to school, keeping people locked in their homes and keeping family and friends apart, are now only too well known.
after four lockdowns we might know what to expect, but that doesn't make it any easier.
kids helpline recorded a 184 per cent increase in youth suicide attempts in victoria from december 2020 to may 2021 compared to one year earlier.
reasons for the surge included "the impact of isolation and lockdowns" and the "increased stress" of young people not being at school.
consequently, there has been an increase in young people trying to access community-based mental health services.
this was recognised by the state government last week with the immediate injection of $10m into critical mental health services.
after a record $3.
8bn investment in mental health announced in last month's budget, the extra $10m is small money.
but it is recognition that critical services need funding right now.
the government is no doubt feeling justified in locking victorians up for a fourth time.
modelling by the burnet institute, released last week, found that without the action up to 2000 victorians would have contracted covid-19 by august.
there can be no arguing the lockdown worked.
of course it did.
when people can't mix, the virus can't spread.
but there must be another way.
how can it be that after more than 15 months we're no more advanced at dealing with this virus?
fortunately, unlike so many countries around the world still dealing with uncontrollable levels of the virus, victoria is not in that position.
just two cases were discovered after more than 80 days of no locally acquired transmissions.
which leaves us in the unique position to be bold with our approach, and experiment with methods that don't force the state to grind to a halt.
but it will take courage from authorities to let life continue while putting out the spot fires that will no doubt continue to emerge.
victorian members of the committees for cities and regions are now calling on the state government to develop a long-term covid readiness plan.
they rightly point out staged restrictions and recovery road maps are too often inconsistently applied.
"this unpredictability of government decision-making contributes to the general unease in the community about unforeseeable restrictions that could be imposed upon victorians at any moment," they say.
"the lack of a clear and consistent approach to reopening and locking down victorian communities erodes business and consumer confidence to plan, resulting in damaging effects to local economies, community mental health outcomes and the reputation of victoria as the place to be.
"among other things they want "a common set of publicly available and industry-informed standards to be applied to decision-making on covid restrictions in victoria.
"the government has long kept the rationale behind its decision-making process secret, saying only it is based on "public health advice".
but increased transparency over the process will not only instil confidence, but could prompt a public debate about how to move forward.
and how to do so without another lockdown.
it beggars belief that four days after wild storms lashed parts of the state, tens of thousands of victorians remain in the dark.
more than 250,000 homes in storm damaged areas lost power last thursday.
thousands were last night still waiting for the lights to come back on.
in the middle of winter and with ongoing covid-19 restrictions in place, they've sat for days with no power, no lighting and for many, no heating.
the net of blame could be cast far and wide.
but ultimately, this is an act of god and the blame game serves little purpose.
what is hard to fathom is the virtual radio silence over the issue.
the fact that hundreds of thousands of people were left without power, lights and heating is nothing short of a disaster.
but the pandemic is all consuming.
the morning after the storms acting premier james merlino fronted the media to announce an easing of restrictions.
there was reference to the storms, but not much of substance.
energy minister lily d'ambrosio put out a series of tweets, and thanked energy companies for their efforts in restoring services to normal.
in normal times, it's hard to imagine ms d'ambrosio not fronting the media at least once, but probably multiple times, to update the community and instil a sense of confidence.
it begs the question: with such intense government focus on covid, what else is being ignored, or given less attention than it deserves?carrying on the business of government alongside a pandemic response has been a problem for governments the world over.
taxpayers should be concerned about the reintroduction of the virus, particularly through government error.
because every time covid-19 returns through a hotel quarantine breach or similar failure by authorities, the government is forced to again turn all attention to eliminating the scourge.
and that can only be to the detriment of other critical functions.
— shannon deery is herald sun state politics editorshannon deery is the herald sun's state political editor.
he joined the paper in 2007 and covered courts and crime before joining the politics team in 2020. to join the conversation, please
 log in.
don't have an account?
registerjoin the conversation, you are commenting as  logout
the bruce pascoe hoax is more proof that the abc is strangled by group-think, where only one opinion seems allowed.
"aboriginal historian" bruce pascoe's jig is up, with woke leftists now admitting he told untruths.
our apps
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a subsidies package for food and beverage (f&b) businesses using food delivery services will be extended by an additional month.
enterprise singapore yesterday said the food delivery booster package will support businesses and encourage them to continue with food delivery sales in the longer run.
the package, which started on may 16 and subsidises part of businesses' delivery costs, will be extended to july 15. in addition, seven more food delivery platforms and third-party logistics players have been added to the pool of service providers which f&b businesses can work with, bringing the total to 13. see the big story • delivery subsidies package for f&b firms gets extendedjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore when mr raj started looking at pre-schools for his 13-month-old twins, he was hopeful they would have the chance to learn tamil, which is spoken by his family.
but the closest centre offering the mother tongue language was too far away, and did not have vacancies.
so the public servant and his wife settled for a nearby school that offered chinese as the lone mother tongue option.
please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jewel changi airport will reopen on monday, about a month after it was closed, as no new covid-19 infections linked to a large cluster at terminal 3 (t3) have been detected in the last three weeks.
this comes as other measures in the past month's heightened alert phase will also be eased, as singaporeans gradually return to working and living as before.
"deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed," the civil aviation authority of singapore and changi airport group said yesterday.
"(they) are on track to reopen safely and progressively.
"passenger terminal buildings remain closed to the public, however, and jewel's reopening is only the first of a phased process, with airport operations having undergone significant changes, including the segregation of about 14,000 airport workers into different risk zones.
this is to minimise the transmission risks revealed by the t3 cluster, which began at the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, where staff came into contact with passengers.
the cluster spawned 108 cases, 43 of whom were airport workers.
staff working in the highest-risk areas will have to wear personal protective equipment at all times, except when they are eating or resting.
inbound and outbound passengers will also no longer have opportunities to intermingle.
increased testing will become part and parcel of working life for some airport employees.
since may 23, those in higher-risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test between a seven-day routine polymerase chain reaction test.
some are now taking covid-19 breath tests as part of a small-scale pilot, with the airport authorities hoping that routine testing will be quicker and more comfortable for airport workers.
the disposable traciex breathalyser, which has just been approved by the health sciences authority, is non-invasive, has been shown by trials to be almost as accurate as the pcr test, and can generate results within two minutes.
it may eventually replace the antigen rapid tests for workers.
minister for transport s.  iswaran, who visited t3 yesterday, said the breathalyser could be a game changer, but still urged caution.
"we are using this opportunity to administer the trial in the airport, and we will continue to scale it up so that there is more data," he said.
"in the first instance, it is promising, but we need to do a lot of work, and i think the testing will continue and gather pace as we go forward.
"asked about the transport ministry's strategy for reopening borders, mr iswaran said it depends on circumstances here and in the countries singapore is engaging.
in singapore, factors to consider include how extensively and quickly the population is vaccinated, how widely available tests and testing facilities are, and if tracing of new cases remains effective.
the operations at changi airport as a point of entry are also critical, he said, and the airport authorities have fundamentally re-examined operations in the last few weeks.
he said singapore is in conversation with "many potential partners", including south korea, and that both hong kong and singapore remain fully committed to resuming their air travel bubble.
"right now, our engagement with all our partners has been on the various preparatory elements whether vaccination, testing or other kinds of protocols.
when the conditions are right, then we will be able to mobilise," he said.
see the big storyjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
chinese powerhouse psg.
lgd have been crowned as the newest major champions of the 2021 dota pro circuit (dpc) after they capped off a dominant run through the weplay animajor with a resounding 3-0 sweep over top north american team evil geniuses (eg) in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd had a blazing start to the animajor after they topped the group stage with a stellar 11-3 record, which earned them an upper bracket berth in the playoffs.
the chinese squad then cemented themselves as the heavy favourites to win the tournament after they defeated alliance, team nigma, and t1 to be the first team to reach the grand finals.
meanwhile, eg had to take the hardest road to the grand finals.
they barely managed to survive the group stage with a middling 7-7 record and had to start the playoffs from the lower bracket.
however, the north american squad were able to find their groove and tear through the lower bracket — besting the likes of noping esports, tnc predator, team nigma, and vici gaming — to survive to the last day of the animajor.
eg then outlasted t1 in the lower bracket finals to earn the right to challenge psg.
lgd in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd kicked off the grand finals with a bang as they absolutely dominated eg in a 33-minute game oen behind wang "ame" chunyu's carry axe and cheng "nothingtosay" jin xiang's mid razor.
ame and nothingtosay combined for 23 kills and 22 assists against zero deaths between the two of them to pace psg.
lgd's 30-6 kill lead by the time their opponents called gg.
eg put up a better fight in game two, as they dominated the early game behind an excellent showing from abed azel "abed" yusop on storm spirit.
however, psg.
lgd were able to repel their opponents' pushes and delay the game long enough for ame's terrorblade to become the strongest hero in the map.
even abed's series-high 14 kills against just two deaths on his storm spirit was not enough to stop psg.
lgd from taking a commanding 2-0 series lead after 47 minutes of action.
psg.
lgd sensed blood in the water in game three, as they looked to overwhelm eg with relentless aggression behind their dominant team fight tri-core of naga siren for ame, death prophet for nothingtosay, and an offlane axe for zhang "faith_bian" ruida.
despite eg's best efforts to hold on, psg.
lgd could not be denied from forcing the gg call at the 36-minute mark to secure their victory in the grand finals with a clean 3-0 series sweep.
with their victory, psg.
lgd claim the championship of the weplay animajor as well as the grand prize of us$200,000 and 500 dpc points.
this is now the third dpc major championship for ame and the psg.
lgd organisation, who won their first two major championships back-to-back at epicenter xl and the mdl changsha major in april and may 2018. meanwhile, eg bow out of the weplay animajor in second place and with us$100,000 and 450 dpc points in consolation.
it is the second time that the north american team have fallen short of a major championship in the 2021 dpc at the hands of chinese opponents.
back in april, eg were defeated by chinese team invictus gaming in the grand finals of the one esports singapore major in a dramatic 3-2 reverse sweep.
with the conclusion of the weplay animajor, the 2021 dpc will soon be reaching its climax with the international 10 (ti10) in stockholm, sweden this august.
psg.
lgd and eg will be among the 18 teams competing in the latest iteration of dota 2's annual world championship tournament, where the aegis of champions and the lion's share of a massive us$40 million prize pool will be at stake.
wang "ame" chunyucheng "nothingtosay" jin xiangzhang "faith_bian" ruidazhao "xinq" zixingzhang "y`" yipingartour "arteezy" babaevabed azel "abed" yusopdaryl "iceiceice" kohandreas "cr1t-" nielsental "fly" aizikread also:weplay animajor playoff preview: the race for ti10 direct invitesweplay animajor: everything you need to knowfor more esports news updates, visit https://yhoo.
it/yahooesportssea and check out yahoo esports southeast asia's facebook page and twitter.
check out esports videos from yahoo tv:it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
liver cancer indicators may be more subtle than you think.
take a look at liver cancer warning signs and symptoms.
moscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
singapore: a scheme to help f&b businesses defray the costs of providing food delivery services and going online has been extended by a month until jul 15, enterprise singapore said on sunday (jun 13).
since it was re-introduced on may 16, the food delivery booster package has benefitted more than 10,000 f&b establishments, said minister of state for trade and industry low yen ling.
the scheme was introduced in april 2020 during singapore's "circuit breaker" period and removed as restrictions eased.
it has been made available again to boost support for f&b businesses during a tough period for the industry, ms low said.
there are now 13 partners supporting this scheme after seven companies were brought on board -food delivery platform bungkus and third-party logistics players chope, grabexpress, pandago, dlvrd, milkrun and yy circle.
"in particular, the extension and expansion of the government's food delivery booster package .
.
.
seeks to alleviate the painful effects of disruption and offer a longer runway of support even after dine-in services resume on jun 21," ms low added.
from now until jul 15, enterprise singapore will fund 5 percentage points of the commission cost charged by the four food delivery platforms bungkus, deliveroo, foodpanda and grabfood.
the agency will also fund 20 per cent of the delivery costs for food delivery orders made through the nine third-party logistic partners currently supporting the initiative.
"the dine-in restrictions in the past few weeks have been challenging for our f&b sector," ms low said, adding that food delivery is becoming part and parcel of the new normal.
citing department of statistics data, enterprise singapore said the covid-19 pandemic and changing consumer preferences have boosted the demand for food delivery services.
for the f&b sector, the percentage of sales from online food delivery increased from an average of 12.
5 per cent from january to march last year to 22.
5 per cent in the same period this year.
f&b businesses have also been relying on the scheme to diversify their operations by providing food delivery services.
"based on preliminary estimates from the first two weeks of phase 2 (heightened alert) from may 16 to may 29, the daily average number of online food deliveries supported under the booster package was close to 20 per cent higher than the daily average during the circuit breaker last year," enterprise singapore said.
ms low said the scheme "will place our f&b establishments in a firm footing for a resilient recovery as they gain new skills and platforms critical for long-term growth".
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
tokyo olympic organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
tokyo:     tokyo olympic organisers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where social distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organisers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organisers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organisers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
carbis bay, england: growing tensions between britain and the european union threatened to overshadow the group of seven summit's conclusion on sunday (jun 13), with london accusing france of "offensive" remarks that northern ireland was not part of the united kingdom.
ever since the united kingdom voted to leave the european union in 2016, the two sides have been trying to work out how to deal with post-brexit trade and the british province, which has a land border with eu member ireland.
ultimately, the talks keep coming back to the delicate patchwork of history, nationalism, religion and geography that intertwine in northern ireland, but the latest spat over the brexit divorce deal is centred on sausages.
during talks with emmanuel macron at the g7 summit, british prime minister johnson queried how the french president would react if toulouse sausages could not be sold in paris markets, echoing london's accusation that the eu is preventing sales of british chilled meats in northern ireland.
british media reported that macron responded by inaccurately saying northern ireland was not part of the united kingdom, remarks british foreign minister dominic raab described as "offensive".
"various eu figures here in carbis bay, but frankly for months now and years, have characterised northern ireland as somehow a separate country and that is wrong," raab said.
"it is a failure to understand the facts.
we wouldn't talk about catalonia and barcelona, or corsica in france in those ways," he told the bbc's andrew marr programme.
trade war?in a move that some worry could provoke a full-scale trade war, johnson has threatened to invoke emergency measures in the northern ireland protocol of the brexit divorce deal if no solution is found to the so-called "sausage war".
that protocol essentially kept the province in the eu's customs union and adhering to many of the single market rules, creating a regulatory border in the irish sea between the british province and the rest of the united kingdom.
but johnson has already delayed the implementation of some of its provisions, including checks on chilled meats moving from the mainland to northern ireland, saying it was causing disruption to some supplies to the province.
a french diplomatic source said macron had been taken aback by johnson bringing up sausages which the british leader had said was a crucial issue but one the french regarded as a distraction from the main business at the g7 leaders' gathering.
the president had merely been pointing out the sausage comparison was invalid due to the geographic differences, the source said.
repeatedly questioned at a news conference about macron's comments during their talks, johnson said brexit had occupied a "vanishingly small proportion of our deliberations" during the summit in carbis bay, which ended on sunday.
"we will do whatever it takes to protect the territorial integrity of the uk but actually what happened at this summit was that there was a colossal amount of work on subjects that had absolutely nothing to do with brexit," he said.
macron told reporters at the g7's conclusion the two sides should stop wasting time on disputes about sausages.
"my wish is that we succeed collectively in putting into action what we signed several months ago," he said.
"let's not waste time with controversies that are created in corridors and backrooms.
"he said france had never taken "the liberty to question the sovereignty, the territorial integrity of the united kingdom".
despite a u. s. -brokered 1998 peace deal that brought an end to three decades of violence, northern ireland remains deeply split along sectarian lines: many catholic nationalists aspire to unification with ireland while protestant unionists want to stay in the uk.
the eu does not want northern ireland to be a backdoor into its single market and neither side wants border checks between the province and the republic of ireland which could become a target for dissident militants.
instead, the two sides agreed to the protocol, which provides for checks between the province and the rest of the united kingdom, though britain now says these are too cumbersome and divisive.
johnson said on saturday he would do "whatever it takes" to protect the uk's territorial integrity.
"it is time for the government to stop talking about fixes to the protocol and get on with taking the necessary steps to remove it," said edwin poots, leader of democratic unionist party, northern ireland's largest political party.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the man caught naked on several video clips this week, including while riding a motorcycle, was charged on saturday (june 12).
yeo qi wei, 24, faced one charge of appearing nude in a public place.
he is alleged to have appeared nude at the open-space carpark of block 212 lorong 8 toa payoh on june 10 at about 5.
45am.
district judge ronald gwee ordered that yeo be remanded at the institute of mental health for two weeks for psychiatric observation.
the police told the straits times on friday that a man had been arrested and was being investigated for other offences, including public nuisance, performing an obscene act in public, trespass and traffic violations, in separate incidents reported.
interest in the incident followed the circulation of a photo on june 10.  it showed a naked man on a motorcycle at a cross junction in eunos.
a video clip of the man also began circulating the same day, showing him riding nude on a motorcycle along the pan island expressway at about 100kmh.
a second clip later surfaced, showing him climbing on top of a car while naked.
the driver of the car could be seen coming out from his vehicle and making a call while looking at the man, who later walked off.
yeo's case is expected to be mentioned again on june 25. if convicted of appearing nude in a public place, he may be jailed for up to three months, or fined up to $2,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
wellington: new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern on monday (jun 14) criticiseda planned movieabout her response to the 2019 christchurch mosque attacks as poorly timed and focussed on the wrong subject.
the us-backed film they are us has sparked an intense backlash among new zealand muslims, with community leaders slamming the project for pushing a "white saviour" narrative.
ardern said the attacks when a white supremacist gunman ran amok at two mosques during friday prayers, killing 51 and seriously injuring another 40 remained "very raw" for many new zealanders.
she said filmmakers had not consulted her about the movie, which is set to star australia's rose byrne as the centre-left leader.
"in my view, which is a personal view, it feels very soon and very raw for new zealand," ardern told tvnz.
"and while there are so many stories that should be told at some point, i don't consider mine to be one of them they are the community's stories, the families' stories.
"ardern won widespread praise for her empathetic and inclusive handling of the attacks, the worst mass shooting in modern new zealand history, including wearing a scarf when meeting mourners.
the movie's title references a line from a speech she gave in the immediate aftermath of the atrocity when she pledged to support the muslim community and tighten gun laws.
a petition from the national islamic youth association calling for the production to be shut down has gathered more than 58,000 signatures.
the association said the proposed film "sidelines the victims and survivors and instead centres the response of a white woman".
it said the muslim community had not been properly consulted about the project, which has been scripted by new zealand writer andrew niccol.
"entities and individuals should not seek to commercialise or profit from a tragedy that befell our community, neither should such an atrocity be sensationalised", association co-chair haris murtaza said.
muslim poet mohamed hassan said the filmmakers needed to focus on members of the community that bore the brunt of the attacks, not use them as props in a feel-good story about ardern.
"you do not get to tell this story.
you do not get to turn this into a white saviour narrative.
this is not yours," he tweeted.
the attacker, australian self-declared white supremacist brenton tarrant, was jailed for life without parole last year, the first time a whole-of-life term has been imposed in new zealand.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore he was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a maid who was walking along a sheltered footpath.
but instead of helping her, sy yong da, 26, drove away and sent his car to a workshop to try to have it repaired to cover up what he had done.
the maid, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, was later found dead at the scene.
she leaves behind two sons, aged eight and 19, and her husband, in the philippines.
on friday (june 11), sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
another two charges for failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
[[nid:470814]]at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, sy drove his silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on farrer road a road with a speed limit of 70kmh towards the direction of queensway.
he was intoxicated at the time and was sleepy, closing his eyes as he veered across two lanes and crashed into the sheltered footpath.
he ran his car into ms ocampo, who was on her way back home from the market, causing her to be flung onto a pillar.
sy immediately steered back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
sy drove away from the scene, went home to his condo unit at spanish village and called a towing company that he found online.
his car was towed away at about 7.
30am.
he later went down to the workshop in kaki bukit, waiting outside from 9.
15am, and handed over the car keys when it finally opened at 10am.
sy then went home to sleep.
it took five investigation officers to track sy down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder at the scene.
when questioned, he told them where the car was and took them to the workshop.
the car was seized before repairs were done.
the owner of the workshop did not proceed with the repairs because sy had not provided a police report detailing the accident.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash and slept very little.
but he decided to take his female friend, identified as one "alicia", out for a meal at a mcdonald's outlet in ang mo kio and drove her home at about 5.
35am despite being sleepy and intoxicated.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and to have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. for killing ms ocampo, he could have been jailed for up to 10 years.
for obstructing the course of justice, he could have been jailed for up to seven years or fined, or both.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
carbis bay: britain and the european union showed little sign of defusing a post-brexit trade dispute on saturday (jun 12), with both sides repeating their opposing positions even after us president joe biden encouraged them to find a compromise.
since britain completed its exit from the eu late last year, relations between the two have soured, with both accusing the other of acting in bad faith over part of their brexit divorce deal that covers border issues with northern ireland.
at a group of seven summit in southwestern england, a meeting of the world's largest advanced economies, prime minister boris johnson held talks with french president emmanuel macron, german chancellor angela merkel and top eu officials ursula von der leyen and charles michel.
the eu told london once again that it must implement the brexit deal in full and introduce checks on certain goods moving from britain to its province of northern ireland.
britain again called for urgent and innovative solutions within the part of the deal called the northern ireland protocol.
"both sides must implement what we agreed on," von der leyen, european commission president, said after meeting johnson alongside michel, the european council president.
"there is complete eu unity on this," she said, adding that the deal had been agreed, signed and ratified by both johnson's government and the bloc.
johnson's spokesman responded: "the pm (prime minister) in all cases (expressed) confidence in the uk's position as regards to the northern ireland protocol and the desire for pragmatism and compromise on all sides.
"although there was no sign of a narrowing of positions, the threats of last week over the so-called "sausage wars" were absent.
an eu official said there was a feeling the rhetoric needed to be toned down.
since britain exited the bloc's orbit, johnson has unilaterally delayed the implementation of some provisions of the protocol, including checks on chilled foods such as sausages moving from the mainland to northern ireland, saying it was causing disruption to some supplies to the british province.
the united states has expressed grave concern the dispute could undermine the 1998 good friday peace deal.
that agreement largely brought an end to the "troubles" three decades of conflict between irish catholic nationalist militants and pro-british protestant "loyalist" paramilitaries in which 3,600 people were killed.
brexitthough brexit was not part of the formal agenda for the g7 summit in the english seaside resort of carbis bay, it has more than once threatened to cloud the meeting.
france's macron offered to reset relations with britain as long as johnson stood by the brexit deal a characterisation of the meeting that was rejected by the british team.
brexit has strained the situation in northern ireland.
the province has an open border with eu member ireland so the northern ireland protocol was agreed as a way to preserve the bloc's single market after britain left.
the protocol essentially kept the province in the eu's customs union and adhering to many of the single market rules, creating a regulatory border in the irish sea between the british province and the rest of the united kingdom.
london says the protocol is unsustainable in its current form because of the disruption to some goods supplies.
the pro-british "unionist" community in northern ireland say they are now split off from the rest of the united kingdom and the brexit deal breaches the 1998 peace deal.
but the open border between the province and ireland was a key principle of good friday deal.
biden, who is proud of his irish heritage, has made clear that any steps that imperilled the peace agreement would not be welcomed by washington.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                medicinal personnel wait before taking the moderna vaccination against the covid-19 coronavirus at taipei tzu chi hospital in new taipei city on june 9, 2021.  afp
tags / keywords:
taiwan
                                                                ,
                                                                                                several
                                                                ,
                                                                                                people
                                                                ,
                                                                                                scholar
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sueing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tsai
                                                                ,
                                                                                                for
                                                                ,
                                                                                                misusing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19 issue



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
by mary mrad for daily mail australia  published:  23:59 edt, 12 june 2021   |  updated:  01:03 edt, 13 june 2021    8view  commentsthe family of a woman killed during the christchurch terror attack in 2019 are urging rose byrne not to star in a new film about the massacre.
the australian actress, 41, has been cast as new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern in upcoming film they are us.
according to the new zealand herald, the family of victim linda armstrong has contacted rose and asked her to refuse the role.
'it's too soon': christchurch mosque massacre victims have urged australian actress rose byrne (pictured) to refuse a role in a new film about the attackthe film follows arden in the wake of the tragic christchurch mosque shootings.
at the time, ms ardern was commended for her response to the two consecutive mass shootings.
'we know that a movie being made about what happened on that dreadful day is inevitable, however for now it is too soon,' linda's nephew kyron gosse wrote.
'it was only 27 months ago that i had to google my aunt's name to see if she was alive or dead.
it was only 27 months ago that i stood in her grave, lowering her lifeless body into the ground.
please, give us time.
''this is not the story': the australian actress has been cast as new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern (pictured) in upcoming film they are uskyron continued: 'the time will come for this story to be told.
when the right time does arrive, it is important that the right story is told, a story that focuses on the true heroes of the day.
''now is not the time, and this is not the story.
please, turn down the role and give us time to heal.
'a petition has also been launched by families of the victims calling for production to be cancelled, and has received over 47,000 signatures so far.
letter: the family of victim linda armstrong has reportedly contacted rose and asked her to refuse the role'the film centres white voices and therefore will continue to white-wash the horrific violence perpetrated against muslim communities,' the petition said.
the christchurch terrorist attack was carried out by gunman brenton tarrant who killed 51 people.
tarrant entered the al noor mosque as friday prayers were beginning and opened fire before driving to linwood mosque on the other side of the city where he continued shooting.
tarrant, a white supremacist originally from australia, was arrested a short time later.
he pleaded guilty to all charges and was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole on august 27 this year.
the film follows arden in the wake of the tragic 2019 christchurch mosque shootings.
at the time, ms ardern was commended for her response to the two consecutive mass shootings 
	    share what you think
          the comments below have been moderated in advance.
the views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of mailonline.
by posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual  we will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on mailonline.
to do this we will link your mailonline account with your facebook account.
we'll ask you to confirm this for your first post to facebook.
you can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to facebook.
your details from facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our privacy policy.
published by associated newspapers ltdpart of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore all 182 stalls in 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre have been closed from sunday (june 13) for cleaning after two covid-19 cases were detected there.
the market and hawker centre will be closed till tuesday.
tanjong pagar grc mp joan pereira on saturday said the tanjong pagar town council, the national environment agency and the bukit merah view merchants' committee are "engaging stallholders at the market and hawker centre to inform them of the closure and to assist with any queries".
"we are also putting up notices around the neighbouring estate to inform residents of the closure," she wrote in a facebook post.
ms pereira told the straits times that stallholders were understanding of the need to close the market for cleaning.
"some asked if there would be any forms of assistance that they could tap in the meantime.
we are currently working with the relevant agencies to ensure that relevant information on any assistance available can be relayed to the stallholders," she added.
an 82-year-old singaporean woman who regularly helps out at a sundry store at the market and hawker centre tested positive.
she is the second case detected there, after a 74-year-old singaporean man who was fully vaccinated and works at a sundry store.
st has asked the ministry of health (moh) if they work at the same sundry store.
moh on saturday said the woman, who has also received both doses of the covid-19 vaccine, developed a fever and shortness of breath last thursday and sought medical treatment at a polyclinic the next day.
she was isolated upon testing positive for an antigen rapid test.
the polymerase chain reaction test later came back positive.
her serology test is still pending.
moh reported nine community cases on saturday and nine imported cases.
these took singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore there were 13 new coronavirus cases confirmed at noon on sunday (june 13), taking singapore's total to 62,276. sunday's figure comprises 10 community cases, said the ministry of health (moh).
of these, two are currently unlinked.
of the eight linked cases, five had already been placed on quarantine, while three were detected through surveillance, said moh.
there were also three imported cases who had been placed on stay-home notice on arrival in singapore.
two of the imported cases are singaporeans or permanent residents.
no new cases from within workers' dormitories were reported.
more details will be announced on sunday night.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
loading.
.
.
saturday, 12 jun 2021 06:22 pm myt

as of june 9, singapore has vaccinated around 44 per cent of its population with at least one dose of the pfizer-biontech or moderna vaccines.
three in four seniors above 60 have had their jabs or booked an appointment.
― photo by ili nadhirah mansor fo

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
singapore, june 12 — mr jake goh, 51, a principal of a privately-run pre-school, does not mind it when people label him as a conspiracy theorist or an anti-vaccine advocate.
"whether i am a conspiracy theorist or not, time will tell.
i'm not trying to argue with people, i'm just here to offer an alternative view.
if they decide to let their children be jabbed, i can only warn them," said mr goh.
he is an admistrator of two telegram groups that discuss covid-19 and vaccine injuries, each with thousands of members surfacing claims that the two authorised vaccines here — pfizer-biontech and moderna — have caused serious side effects such as stroke.
this is despite the fact that the singapore government has authorised the pfizer-biontech vaccine for teens aged 12 to 15, with an expert committee and the health sciences authority (hsa) assessing that the vaccine is safe and efficacious to use for this group.
"you can gather a lot of knowledge from the internet.
not everything the doctor says about vaccines is correct," said mr goh.
mr goh was not always so radical, having dutifully received flu jabs and other types of vaccines in the past.
his transformation to become an anti-vaccine advocate began last year during the pandemic, after reading articles about the drug industrial complex behind cholesterol research.
nowadays, he gets his information from youtubers who discuss health issues and have a wide following, as well as from health journals that he reads to "get to the source" directly.
after all, newspapers can be biased, he claimed.
his contrarian views have led to conflicts with people around him.
his best friends removed him from their facebook friends list because his anti-vaccine posts have become "too extreme" lately.
his sister, who lives in france where some 110,000 people have died from covid-19, often chides him for telling others not to get the jab when he has not seen firsthand how horrific the disease can become outside of singapore.
but he is immovable in his radical belief that a good vaccine is not available because their development is rushed: "people say i believe in conspiracy theories, that i am an anti-vaxxer, that i am crazy.
oh yes, i get that a lot.
"mr goh is not the only one who has been socially distanced this way during the pandemic.
artist zelda, 34, has also seen her family ties and long-standing relationships strained or severed, as a result of her wild and unsubstantiated claims — such as one proclaiming that vaccines are part of a money-grubbing conspiracy by the "global public health mafia".
first, it was with her father, who reads the newspapers and has been vaccinated, and whom she often had heated arguments with.
to her, official narratives from governments and experts obscure the truth, while alternative viewpoints from youtube commentators deserve to be heard.
then, the fallout also spread to her close friends, whom she has known for decades, after she began sharing articles depicting covid-19 as a lab-made bioweapon, and defending these articles when her friends challenged her.
sick of arguing whenever zelda shares articles about such theories on their mutual chat groups, some of her childhood friends have since shut her out of their lives.
she declined to give her full name.
wistfully, one of these friends told today: "she was always the first one to diffuse an argument.
but now she believes so much in this that she's willing to just abandon friends over it.
"speaking to today, zelda recounted how voicing out these "alternative facts" during the pandemic had caused people around her to blow a fuse.
with her father, she no longer desires to discuss such theories at the dinner table.
"we just say hello and good morning, that sort of thing.
it's much healthier this way.
""in this pandemic, it is quite sobering that the things that we believe in shape us, down to the relationships that we have," she added, referring to how she is no longer on talking terms with some of her friends.
as singaporeans, and people elsewhere, suffer from an information overload regarding covid-19 — where fact, fiction and half-truths abound — it takes patience and effort to engage people with strongly held beliefs that are based on falsehoods, sid ms tin pei ling, member of parliament (mp) for macpherson.
"(they) could have good intentions too.
but if one shuts them out completely, it means there are no more chances to give them the right facts, and does not give you the opportunity to understand each other better," the chairperson of the government parliamentary committee for communications and information said.
beyond that, misinformation about the virus has far more serious implications as it could waylay singapore's pandemic plans, experts said.
as of june 9, singapore has vaccinated around 44 per cent of its population with at least one dose of the pfizer-biontech or moderna vaccines.
three in four seniors above 60 have had their jabs or booked an appointment.
but along with this progress, the number of incidents involving misinformation has also increased lately, some noted.
there have been three incidents about coronavirus-related falsehoods requiring the use of singapore's fake news law, the protection from online falsehoods and manipulation act (pofma), in the span of a month from april to may, noted mr ryan lim, founding partner of digital management consultancy qed consulting.
on june 8, health minister ong ye kung acknowledged these issues playing out on social media that had cast doubt on the safety of covid-19 vaccines, claiming that mrna vaccines, such as pfizer's and moderna's, do not work.
he was referring to a petition by 12 doctors, who had disagreed with the government's decision to roll out mrna vaccines, and also discouraged parents from vaccinating their children.
eleven of the doctors later retracted their statement, and the authorities as well as a number of other infectious diseases experts were quick to respond to these vaccine claims.
while the viral situation is under control in singapore presently, dr shashi jayakumar, head of s rajaratnam school of international studies' centre of excellence for national security (cens), warned that the covid-19 situation could very well turn critical again for singapore.
and if it does, and if trust in the state and institutions is shaken as a result, malicious rumours, falsehoods, half-truths and misinformation would be back to plague singapore's pandemic response once again.
"we are starting from a good position now.
but hypothetically, if there is wave after wave of infections, and lockdowns after lockdowns are needed, that would be the fertile ground for malicious misinformation to proliferate," he said.
fact, fiction and the unknowntracing the roots of misinformation to their sources would likely reveal one of several motivations behind its spread: these include political and ideological reasons, commercial profit, mischief, but also cases of genuine misunderstanding, said experts.
qed's mr lim said: "such false content tends to thrive in an environment with a high degree of anxiety and ambiguity.
the successful spread will create a vicious circle that encourages more of such content to be created.
"to date, pofma has been used in 14 separate instances concerning covid-19-related falsehoods.
but the amount of misinformation being spread during the pandemic is far more numerous than those flagged by the fake news law, which on its own, is insufficient to stop people from believing these claims, said experts.
associate professor alton chua from the wee kim wee school of communication and information at nanyang technological university said that while pofma is designed to nip the spread of falsehood in the bud, it is no silver bullet when it comes to shaping beliefs.
people can also suffer from confirmation bias, choosing to interpret information in a way that conforms to their existing beliefs, he said.
that means that those who are sceptical about covid-19 vaccines, for example, tend to exaggerate reports they come across about post-vaccination complications.
"the mindset of 'better be safe than sorry' is ironically what compels these people to share untruths," he said.
fast-evolving pandemic conducive for misinformationwhen it comes to covid-19, however, the scientific nature of the coronavirus and vaccines renders it hard for people to make their own conclusions about the science.
thus, it is key that people can turn to experts with the right credentials and experience to help them sort fact from fiction.
what makes this pandemic a perfect storm for misinformation to be reinforced and spread is because it concerns a new virus, fast-emerging viral strains, and cutting-edge vaccines that will take time to fully understand them.
and with science still playing catch-up with an evolving disease, there is a danger that misinformation can fill in the void and could even foster mistrust of scientific methods.
dr carol soon and mr shawn goh from the institute of policy studies (ips) at the lee kuan yew school of public policy said that a study they conducted last year had found that false information relating to health and medicine was second out of 11 topics that were most frequently believed by singaporeans.
falsehoods about international and foreign affairs came out tops in the study.
falsehoods on vaccine safetydr soon and mr goh warned that they have observed increasingly active forms of "online mobilisation" among people who circulate unverified information or mistruths about covid-19 vaccine safety and its purported side effects.
the ips researchers observed that people have been setting up facebook groups to share misinformation, and creating google forms to solicit stories and cases of vaccine injuries, often without the full context.
"mobilisation is also taking place in closed-group platforms such as whatsapp and telegram.
the end-to-end encryption technology that undergirds instant messaging apps hinders timely misinformation detection and debunking," they said.
mr jake goh, who runs one such group on telegram, claimed that its purpose is to create awareness because "transparency is needed in public health", so that the public can make an informed decision about vaccines.
"we are filling the gap that the ministry of health and all the relevant authorities are not providing or not announcing," he said.
he claimed that his vaccine scepticism is backed by his own research into the clinical trial data of existing vaccines.
the hsa reported in may that out of the 3.
7 million vaccine doses administered until may 23, there were 157 reports of serious adverse effects such as anaphylaxis, but no deaths have been linked to the vaccines so far.
on this, ips' dr soon and mr shawn goh said that it is often the case that those who go the extra mile to look up information on vaccine efficacy may end up reinforcing their own beliefs.
"their false beliefs may be reinforced when they draw invalid conclusions from scientific studies without a full appreciation of their robustness, or if they turn to 'scientific journals' that are not actually recognised by the expert community," they said.
referring to these online mobilisation efforts, dr soon and mr shawn goh added: "without intervention, these online spaces allow anti-vaccine views to fester and gain perceived legitimacy as they grow in size.
"establishing links between vaccines and deaths: what public needs to understandexperts stressed the importance in trusting the scientific method — that conclusions can only be reached after observations, experiments and measurements are done.
professor teo yik ying, dean of the saw swee hock school of public health, said that there is a clear difference between proof of absence and the absence of proof.
it is one thing to issue a statement such as "in all the participants in the clinical trials, we have not observed a death event", as opposed to "this vaccine does not cause death in anyone who takes it", he said.
"there is a need to systematically review the evidence of any mortality event that is suspected to be linked to the vaccine to understand whether taking the vaccine caused the fatality," he added.
because proper science takes time, it thus falls to a close partnership among responsible scientists, responsible media and trusted public agencies to be agile in responding to fake news in the meantime, he said.
all three parties are essential to this effort, since no single stakeholder holds all the cards needed to combat fake news.
the media and fact-checking organisations, for example, do not have the complete information needed to deal with complex scientific problems, but they should have access to trusted experts and policymakers to distill the information for the public.
this also means people should be wary of scientists who are not properly informed themselves, as well as irresponsible ones who could have been generating and spreading misinformation, said prof teo.
orchestrated disinformation campaignsanother aspect of misinformation concerns the threat of state-led disinformation campaigns, in the light of efforts by some countries to promote "vaccine diplomacy".
china, for example, is donating vaccines to regions where its competition with the us for influence is intense, reported reuters news agency.
the us has also announced its plans to donate 500 million doses of vaccines to the developing world, including in asia.
but could vaccine diplomacy also take on a more aggressive stance, such as by resorting to disinformation campaigns to discredit another country's vaccine?
are such efforts already underway in singapore?it is possible, though drawing a link between a falsehood and a state-originated disinformation campaign is difficult, said ms dymples leong, a senior analyst at cens.
she noted that there has been misinformation revolving not just around vaccines in general, but also certain vaccines in particular.
asked whether vaccine geopolitics are at play in singapore, cens' dr jayakumar said there is no doubt that vaccine diplomacy is now an important "calling card" of national soft power, so there are tensions whenever that soft power is being undermined.
he said that messages of indeterminate origin have been bandied around on social media creating fear about certain vaccine types, though he agreed with ms leong that it is not easy to conclude that these are state-led efforts.
nevertheless, singapore is also being closely watched for what vaccines it buys and uses for its national vaccination programme, he added.
"it is universally recognised that when we choose certain vaccines, questions may be asked as to why we did not choose another one," said dr jayakumar.
the first batch of pfizer-biontech vaccines arrived in singapore on dec 21, 2020.  singapore is also being closely watched for what vaccines it buys and uses for its national vaccination programme, said cens' dr jayakumar.
― photo by raj nadarajan for

greater transparency, engagement the antidote?with such a wide spectrum of motivations behind the spread of misinformation, tackling pandemic falsehoods is a challenging task for any government, said experts.
singapore cannot ignore malicious falsehoods, lest they take hold in society, said those interviewed.
ms tin, the macpherson mp, told today: "the government is faced with the responsibility to contain and control the virus in the fastest time possible to reduce the damage to our people to the minimum possible.
"after all, at the national level, if there are people who are spreading misinformation, discouraging people from receiving the vaccination or from complying with the safety rules, then you can imagine how much it will slow down our pandemic response or even derail it.
"fortunately, singapore is not faring too bad when it comes to managing misinformation, said assoc prof chua from the wee kim wee school of communication and information.
many were apprehensive when singapore's vaccination programme began in earnest earlier this year, but the myths were quickly dispelled through the mainstream media and with the help of infectious diseases experts, said assoc prof chua.
ips' dr soon and mr goh said of these efforts: "effective communication of science is needed to build resilience against vaccine misinformation and foster public trust in science.
"public messaging should be clear and simple, for example by stating that vaccines are safe and effective, and highlighting scientific consensus on the matter helps inoculate people from being swayed by misinformation that claim otherwise.
"dr jeremy lim, from the saw swee hock school of public health, said that disagreements between doctors and professionals can still be cordial, agreeing to disagree.
that said, transparency must also come from scientists, doctors, public health professionals too, considering that the nature of novel diseases means there will be limited data and experience to go by.
"in public communications, it's important to share views and recognise alternative ways of interpreting data, as well as be clear why one disagrees with certain points made," said dr lim.
while some may argue that alternative views have been shut out of the official narrative, singapore's public communications strategies by and large have allowed national vaccination take-up rate to maintain a healthy trajectory, said those interviewed.
after all, the proof is in the pudding, they said.
but at the individual level, when confronted with someone with wildly differing views that are based on falsehoods, ms tin urged people to not dismiss them and instead listen closely to their concerns.
"sometimes that can be very difficult to do and it can be an emotional experience," said ms tin.
"but we just have to try. "
― todayloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem (reuters) benjamin netanyahu's record 12-year run as israel's prime minister ended on sunday (june 13) with parliament approving a new "government of change" led by nationalist naftali bennett, an improbable scenario few israelis could have imagined.
but the razor-thin 60-59 vote of confidence in a coalition of left-wing, centrist, right-wing and arab parties with little in common except for a desire to unseat mr netanyahu only underscored its likely fragility.
addressing parliament before mr bennett was sworn in, a combative mr netanyahu said: "if we are destined to go into the opposition, we will do so with our heads held high until we can topple it. "
that will happen, the 71-year-old netanyahu added, "sooner than people think".
the new government, formed after an inconclusive march 23 election, plans largely to avoid sweeping moves on hot-button international issues such as policy toward the palestinians, and to focus on domestic reforms.
palestinians were unmoved by the change of administration, predicting that mr bennett, a former defence chief who advocates annexing parts of the occupied west bank, would pursue the same right-wing agenda as likud party leader netanyahu.
israel's longest-serving leader, mr netanyahu was prime minister since 2009, after a first term from 1996 to 1999. but he was weakened by his repeated failure to clinch victory in four elections over the past two years, including a vote in march, and by an ongoing corruption trial, in which he has denied any wrongdoing.
under the coalition deal, mr bennett, a 49-year-old orthodox jew and high-tech millionaire, will be replaced as prime minister by centrist yair lapid, 57, a popular former television host, in 2023. with his far-right yamina party winning only six of parliament's 120 seats in the last election, mr bennett's ascension to the premiership as the head of a kaleidoscope of parties was a political jaw-dropper.
interrupted by non-stop shouts of "liar" and "shame" from netanyahu loyalists in parliament, mr bennett thanked him for his "lengthy and achievement-filled service on behalf of the state of israel".
but little love has been lost between the two men: mr bennett once served as mr netanyahu's chief of staff and had a rocky relationship with him as defence minister.
in the run-up to the new government, bennett spurned mr netanyahu's call to join with him, rather than with mr lapid.
on the international stage, with his polished english and booming baritone voice, mr netanyahu has become the face of israel.
he has resisted international calls for palestinian statehood he has described as a danger to israel's security, while forging formal relations with the united arab emirates, bahrain, morocco and sudan and decrying iran's nuclear programme.
united states president joe biden congratulated mr bennett, mr lapid and the rest of the new cabinet and said he looked forward to working with mr bennett to strengthen the "close and enduring" relationship between their two countries.
"my administration is fully committed to working with the new israeli government to advance security, stability, and peace for israelis, palestinians, and people throughout the broader region," he said in a statement.
both abroad and at home, mr netanyahu has been a polarising figure.
often referred to by his nickname bibi, mr netanyahu is loved by his supporters and loathed by critics.
his ongoing corruption trial – on charges he denies – has only deepened the rift.
his opponents have long reviled what they see as mr netanyahu's divisive rhetoric, underhand political tactics and subjection of state interests to his own political survival.
some have dubbed him "crime minister" and have accused him of mishandling the coronavirus crisis and its economic fall-out.
addressing parliament, mr bennett echoed mr netanyahu's call for the us not to return to the 2015 nuclear pact between iran and world powers, a deal abrogated by mr biden's predecessor donald trump.
"renewal of the nuclear agreement with iran is a mistake, an error that would again grant legitimisation to one of the darkest and violent regimes in the world," mr bennett said.
"israel will not allow iran to equip itself with nuclear weapons.
"thanking mr biden for his "years of commitment to israel's security", and for "standing by israel" during fighting with hamas militants in gaza last month, mr bennett said his government would pursue good relations with us democrats and republicans.
"the government will make an effort to deepen and enhance our relations with both parties – bipartisan," mr bennett said.
mr bennett has drawn anger from within the right-wing camp for breaking a campaign pledge by joining forces with mr lapid – and an allegation from netanyahu that he defrauded the electorate.
mr bennett has said another election – a likely outcome if no government were formed – would have been a disaster for israel.
both mr bennett and mr lapid have said they want to bridge political divides and unite israelis under a government that will work hard for all its citizens.
their cabinet faces huge foreign, security and financial challenges: iran, a fragile ceasefire with palestinian militants in gaza, a war crimes probe by the international criminal court, and economic recovery following the coronavirus pandemic.
bennett listed as priorities reforms in education, health, cutting red tape to grow businesses and lower housing costs.
coalition leaders have said it would pass a two-year budget to help stabilise the country's finances and maintain a "status quo" on issues of religion and state.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington (reuters) a g-7 plan to donate 1 billion covid-19 vaccine doses to poorer countries will have limited impact because it includes some previous pledges, but it still offers a small lifeline to a global vaccine buying system, some experts said.
leaders from the group of seven major economies announced the move on friday (june 11).
a us initiative announced on thursday to donate 500 million doses of the pfizer and biontech se vaccine is part of the g-7 pledge.
many of the promised doses will flow through covax, a global vaccine buying system backed by the world health organisation and gavi, the vaccine alliance.
the pledge does not represent entirely new resources, and the donation is far short of the 5 billion to 6 billion shots needed by poorer nations.
moreover, the plan does not address distribution gaps that could make it difficult to deliver doses.
but experts said it is still a much-needed boost to covax, which has so far only distributed 83 million shots worldwide.
covax has struggled to secure deliveries as wealthy nations reserve enough shots to vaccinate their populations several times over.
"it's going to rescue covax from its pretty dire predicament right now, so it's a very significant step," said stephen morrison, the director of the global health policy center at the centre for strategic and international studies, a think tank.
britain's 100 million dose pledge is "entirely new", according to a spokesperson.
but the european union's 100 million dose commitment was promised during a summit in may, and the us commitment partially replaces earlier promises to fund covax directly.
the united states has already donated us$2 billion (s$2.
7 billion) to covax, according to a white house official.
in february, the biden administration pledged us$2 billion more.
but that second us$2 billion will now fund the purchase of the pfizer doses, along with us$1.
5 billion in additional funds, according to the official.
even if the shots are acquired and shipped, they risk overwhelming developing countries' limited distribution infrastructure, especially if many are delivered together late this year.
the world bank extended a us$12 billion line of credit for developing countries to build out vaccine distribution infrastructure, but governments have drawn down only about us$3 billion.
"the low-income countries are wary of increasing their debt profile, that is the reality," said edwin ikhuoria, executive director for the one campaign, a nonprofit focused on poverty and public health.
others argue that wealthy countries should find a way to ship doses more quickly, especially as some near expiry in countries with high vaccination rates, including those made by johnson & johnson inc. "when you just see the graph of the increase of vaccination coverage in wealthy countries and the accelerated pace at which that has been happening, and then when you look at the pace in developing countries, it's just so stark," said kate elder, senior vaccines policy adviser at médecins sans frontières.
"doses are needed now.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
chinese powerhouse psg.
lgd is the first team to reach the grand finals of the weplay animajor after they defeated southeast asian squad t1 in an intense 2-1 showdown in the upper bracket finals.
psg.
lgd emerged as the heavy favourites to win the animajor after a blazing start in the group stage, where they topped the standings with a stellar 11-3 record.
that earned the chinese squad an upper bracket berth in the playoffs, where they continued their dominance by knocking eu/ western european teams alliance and team nigma down to the lower bracket en route to the upper bracket finals.
meanwhile, t1 earned a direct seed to the upper bracket of the animajor playoffs as the top team of the southeast asian regional league.
despite being pegged as one of the weaker playoff-seeded teams, t1 defied expectations by taking down team aster and quincy crew — the top teams of the chinese and north american regional leagues, respectively — to face off against psg.
lgd for a spot in the grand finals.
psg.
lgd crushed t1 in game one but threw away their chance to sweep the series late into game two.
however, the chinese team were undeterred heading into game three and proceeded to dominate their opponents to claim the 2-1 series victory and claim their spot in the grand finals.
read on for a breakdown of the weplay animajor upper bracket finals:game onethe upper bracket finals opened with t1 going with their tried-and-true four-protect-one strategy anchored by star carry player nuengnara "23savage" teeramahanon's medusa.
meanwhile, psg.
lgd countered with a fast-paced, hard-hitting lineup led by a tri-core of spectre for wang "ame" chunyu, a mid leshrac for cheng "nothingtosay" jin xiang, and an offlane dragon knight for zhang "faith_bian" ruida.
the support duo of zhao "xinq" zixing on hoodwink and zhang "y`" yiping on winter wyvern brought up the rear and provided crowd control.
psg.
lgd took control of game one early, as nothingtosay's leshrac and faith_bian's dragon knight demolished enemy towers and took map control for their team to give ame's spectre the space he needed to free farm.
the chinese team's early lead allowed them to hit their timings early and strike before 23savage's medusa was able to come online.
with 23savage far from being able to solo carry and the rest of t1 essentially neutered, psg.
lgd dominated the team fights and took game one after 31 minutes.
ame and xinq notably combined for 22 of their team's 32 total kills without giving up a single death between the two of them.
game twopsg.
lgd went with ame on spectre and nothingtosay on leshrac again for game two.
however, their lineup also featured a lot of burst damage with faith_bian on axe, xinq on skywrath mage, and y` on enchantress.
t1 looked to bounce back with a more balanced lineup headed by a tri-core of monkey king for 23savage, puck for karl "karl" jayme, and an offlane doom for carlo "kuku" palad.
t1 put up a much better fight in game two as they led 12-9 in kills held a narrow gold lead by the 20-minute mark.
however, psg.
lgd were able to win crucial midgame fights to take the lead heading into the late game, where their lineup was much stronger than t1.
knowing they were in the driver's seat, psg.
lgd amped up the aggression and tried to force one last decisive engagement.
however, t1 punished their opponents' over-aggression and were the ones to win that crucial clash and the second game of the series after 47 minutes of action.
karl's puck was the difference maker for t1 as they forced the series to a deciding game three, as he provided crucial crowd control and burst damage en route to a game-high 12 kills against three deaths.
game threet1 put karl on puck again in game three then took the spectre-axe duo for 23savage and kuku.
xepher on winter wyvern and whitemon on warlock rounded out the line-up by providing huge team fight ultimates.
meanwhile, psg.
lgd countered their opponents' slower line-up with a fast-paced tri-core of wraith king for ame, leshrac again for nothingtosay, and doom for faith_bian.
xinq on nyx assassin and y` on phoenix comprised the chinese team's support duo.
psg.
lgd took control of game three from the get-go and never looked back.
the chinese team built up a 10-4 kill lead and a 8,000 gold advantage by the 20-minute mark which only ballooned up to a 16-6 kill lead and 20,000 gold advantage ten minutes later.
despite t1's best efforts to defend, their line-up simply failed to get off the ground and could do little to stop psg.
lgd from claiming the 2-1 series victory after 35 minutes.
with their victory, psg.
lgd guarantee themselves at least a top 2 finish in the weplay animajor along with us$100,000 and 450 dota pro circuit (dpc) points.
of course, they will have their sights set on being crowned as major champions on sunday (13 june) and claim the lion's share of us$200,000 and 500 dpc points.
meanwhile, t1 drop down to the lower bracket finals, where they will take on north american giants evil geniuses (eg), who were the finalists of the one esports singapore major.
those two squads will be facing off before the grand finals for the right to challenge psg.
lgd for the championship of the weplay animajor.
psg.
lgd:wang "ame" chunyucheng "nothingtosay" jin xiangzhang "faith_bian" ruidazhao "xinq" zixingzhang "y`" yipingt1:nuengnara "23savage" teeramahanonkarl "karl" jaymecarlo "kuku" paladkenny "xepher" deomatthew "whitemon" filemonread also:weplay animajor playoff preview: the race for ti10 direct invitesweplay animajor: everything you need to knowfor more esports news updates, visit https://yhoo.
it/yahooesportssea and check out yahoo esports southeast asia's facebook page and twitter.
check out esports videos from yahoo tv:it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"lastpass protects every access point through an all-in-one single sign-on, password management and mfa solution.
several hundred people gathered in london, ontario on saturday to pay homage to a muslim family deliberately mowed down by the driver of a pick-up truck, in an attack that has shocked canadians and which prime minister justin trudeau denounced as "terrorist.
"president recep tayyip erdogan on sunday said turkey would be the "only reliable" country left to stabilise afghanistan after the us pulls out its troops, indicating washington could rely on its nato ally.
the executive condo is an alluring property in singapore because it serves 'sandwich class' singaporeans.
whether it's ec grant, ec income ceiling or resale levy, read everything you need to know about executive condos here.
protect yourself from mosquitoes the moment you turn it on.
these are selling fast, here is how it works.
anti-junta protesters flooded myanmar's social media with pictures of themselves wearing black on sunday in a show of solidarity with the rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country.
novak djokovic claimed a 19th grand slam title and became the first man in 52 years to win all four majors twice when he came from two sets down to beat stefanos tsitsipas in a gripping french open final on sunday.
grab holdings ceo anthony tan said he's confident the spac merger will be completed by year-end, following a delay caused by a review of its financials.
there's a reason it's called texas tea: 20 of the lone star state's billionaires have fortunes rooted in oil, gas or pipelines.
foreign forces should hold 'no hope' of keeping a military presence in afghanistan after the us and nato withdraw troops, the taliban said saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of afghans.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the trial of ousted myanmar leader aung san suu kyi will hear its first testimony in a junta court monday, more than four months after a military coup.
search for private jet membership.
the affordable price makes these private jet offers hard to resisteven in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an american father-son duo accused of packing former nissan chief carlos ghosn into an audio equipment case so he could escape trial in japan will appear in a tokyo court for the first time monday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
every pc user must read this in 2021 do it now.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
malaysia on sunday deported a leading figure in conspiracy circles who is wanted in france over the kidnapping of an eight-year-old girl, sources told afp.
us president joe biden on sunday congratulated incoming israeli prime minister naftali bennett after an alliance of parties ousted benjamin netanyahu and formed a new government.
new research has identified ten favorite stocks for the upcoming yearmoscow mayor sergei sobyanin on saturday announced a "non-working" week in the russian capital, with non-essential workers told to stay home, as covid-19 cases hit a six-month high.
two strategies to consider when making investment decisions.
the post getting started: what is averaging up and averaging down appeared first on the smart investor.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
they occur more often in men compared to women.
authordatecategorysingapore – according to the expert committee on covid-19 vaccination in singapore, there is a "very small risk" of heart inflammation after receiving the second dose of an mrna covid-19 vaccine; however, the "benefits continue to outweigh the risks.
"the expert committee is closely monitoring international reports regarding the second dose of an mrna covid-19 vaccine being associated with a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men, said the ministry of health (moh) in a media release on friday (jun 11).
myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions affecting the heart muscles and the outer lining of the heart, respectively.
they occur more often in men compared to women.
patients have shown symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath, or abnormal heartbeats, said moh.
although most cases are mild, with patients recovering without the need for significant intervention and do not suffer long-term effects, "very rarely severe cases may result in damage to the heart.
"increased occurrences of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccinations have been observed overseas in israel and the united states (us) in young men below the age of 25 years.
the risk of this has been estimated to be 1.
6 cases per 100,000 doses for mrna vaccines in the us, which is comparable to the risk of anaphylaxis observed in singapore.
locally, the health sciences authority (hsa) has reported four cases involving young men aged between 18 to 30 years.
moh noted that the incidents occurred at the upper end of the expected range for the age group.
most of the cases were reported within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine.
all of the men have recovered or been discharged well from the hospital.
myocarditis and pericarditis are separate and distinct conditions from heart attacks caused when blood flow to the heart is blocked.
"we have reviewed the currently available international and local data," said moh.
"our assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mrna covid-19 vaccines, i. e. , reduction in covid-19 infections and severe complications even if infected, continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination.
"as a precaution, adolescents and younger men, in particular, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"during this time, they should seek medical attention promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath, or abnormal heartbeats," advised the expert committee.
/tisgread related: about 2,000 people experienced severe adverse reactions to pfizer, moderna vaccines; should not take second dose: mohabout 2,000 people experienced severe adverse reactions to pfizer, moderna vaccines; should not take second dose: mohfollow us on social mediasend in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg send in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg
over four years ago, rolls-royce unleashed its first electric vehicle.
it wasn't a passenger vehicle, though, but a one-off kid car for a noble cause called the rolls-royce srh.
built specifically for st.  richard's hospital in chichester, the srh was used by children to drive themselves before pediatric surgeries.
now, after years of being in service, the srh is now back at the home of rolls-royce in goodwood for routine maintenance work after 2,000 journeys amounting to 100,000 meters (62 miles).
the srh needed 400 hours to be completed, with the main purpose to provide excitement to young patients who are up for surgery.
rather than walking or being wheeled to the surgery unit, the kids can drive themselves, removing anxiety and replacing it with a memorable experience.
the journey was in style, of course, with the srh bearing a laser-etched rr badge and its own spirit of ecstasy.
however, that task wasn't without any peril.
the srh suffered some damages to its paint and bodywork, which prompted the automaker to instill a recall to bring it back to its original design and condition.
there's the other one-off that's equally special:"building the rolls-royce srh for st richard's hospital was tremendously satisfying for all concerned.
that it has been used so extensively and made such a positive contribution to so many children's experiences, makes it all the more rewarding.
it was wonderful to see it back at the home of rolls-royce and to have the opportunity to return it to its original, magnificent state," said andrew ball, head of corporate relations, rolls-royce motor cars.
now back in its original state, the rolls-royce srh has returned in service to continue its journey as a joy-bringer to the children of st richard's hospital.
source:
                                
                                                                    rolls-royce car buying serviceget upfront price offers on local inventory.
search for:trendingabout this article
follow onadvertisement
reuters
staff

contact
tokyo -- 
	tokyo olympic organizers plan to give away about 150,000 condoms at next month's games, but are telling athletes to take them home rather than use them in the olympic village where physical distancing rules and coronavirus measures are the top priority.
large numbers of condoms have been given out at the games since the 1988 seoul olympics to raise awareness of hiv and aids, and organizers said the international olympic committee had requested their continued distribution.
but athletes have been told to keep their distance from each other, meaning fewer opportunities to mingle and more.
"the distribution of condoms is not for use at the athlete's village, but to have athletes take them back to their home countries to raise awareness" of hiv and aids issues, said tokyo 2020 in an emailed response to questions by reuters.
officials have already barred overseas spectators and are asking those who do attend the delayed event to show their support by clapping rather than cheering or singing to try and reduce the risk of spreading the virus.
dining has become another issue to resolve.
organizers were originally planning to feed residents of the village in vast dining halls – the largest one with a capacity to seat 4,500 people at once.
but now, the organizers will ask athletes to dine alone, maintain social distancing with others, and wipe down surfaces after eating.
"without the proper measures in place, it will only take one person to bring in the virus and spread it, especially in places like the athlete village," nobuhiko okabe, one of the infectious disease specialists advising tokyo 2020 on its coronavirus measures said at a news conference on friday.
"we have to do what we can to make sure an outbreak doesn't happen, and we really need the cooperation of all the athletes and delegations to make this work," he added.
(reporting by sakura murakami; editing by lincoln feast.
)the olympic rings are silhouetted as fireworks light up the sky during the closing ceremonies at the 2014 sochi winter olympics in sochi, russia on sunday, february 23, 2014.
(the canadian press / nathan denette)advertisement
        sign up for our weekly email newsletter delving into climate science and life on a changing planet.
use of this website assumes acceptance of terms & conditions and privacy policy© 2021all rights reserved.
back to top
loading.
.
.
sunday, 13 jun 2021 05:28 pm myt

the european medicines agency (ema) considers the astrazeneca shot safe for all age groups.
.
— afp pic

follow us on instagram and subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates.
milan, june 13 — countries should also avoid giving the astrazeneca coronavirus vaccine to people over 60, the head of the eu drug regulator's covid-19 task force was quoted on sunday as saying, amid fears over rare blood clotting and as more vaccines become available.
the european medicines agency (ema) considers the astrazeneca shot safe for all age groups.
however several european union member states have stopped administering it to people below a certain age, usually ranging from 50 to 65, restricting its use to the older population, due to the rare cases of blood clotting, mainly among young people.
"in a pandemic context, our position was and is that the risk-benefit ratio remains favourable for all age groups," covid-19 task force chief marco cavaleri told the italian newspaper la stampa.
however, as the number of covid-19 cases is falling and taking into account that the younger population is less exposed to covid-19 related risks, cavaleri said it would be better to use on them covid-19 vaccines based on messenger rna ( mrna) technology, such as moderna and the pfizer-biontech vaccines.
asked whether health authorities should avoid giving the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, cavaleri said: "yes, and many countries, such as france and germany, are considering it in the light of greater availability of mrna vaccines.
"the italian government said on friday it would restrict the use of the astrazeneca vaccine to people aged over 60, after a teenager who had received the shot died from a rare form of blood clotting.
like many european countries, italy briefly halted astrazeneca inoculations in march over concerns about the rare blood clotting problems.
it resumed them the following month with the recommendation that the product be "preferably" used for people over the age of 60, after the ema said its benefits outweighed any risks.
— reutersloading.
.
.
© 2021, malay mail, all rights reserved.
australia's victoria state expects to announce further easing of covid-19 restrictions this week, acting premier james merlino said on sunday, as the state reported one new locally acquired infection for a second straight day.
also read: australia's victoria detects delta covid-19 variant in latest outbreakthe latest infection was a close contact of a previously reported case and had already been quarantined, victoria's health department said.
australia's second-most-populous state has recorded 92 cases in its latest wave of covid-19 infections, which triggered a two-week snap lockdown late last month.
victoria emerged from the lockdown on friday as new cases declined, but some physical distancing rules remain.
"my expectation is by later in the week, we will be in a position to announce further easing of restrictions for regional victoria and .
.
.
for metropolitan melbourne," merlino said.
merlino added he was keen to get people back to attending sporting events and theatre, though he had no announcement to make yet in that regard.
under existing curbs, melbourne residents can only travel up to 25 kilometres (15.
5 miles) from home while outdoor gatherings are limited to 10 people.
masks are required indoors and outdoors at all public spaces.
also read: covid-19: australia's victoria enters 7-day lockdownmore than 3,000 primary close contacts of infected cases are already in quarantine with about 122 exposure sites listed on the victorian government website.
australia has fared much better than many other developed countries during the pandemic, with more than 22,300 local covid-19 cases and 910 deaths since march 2020, mostly in victorian aged-care homes.
snap lockdowns, internal border controls and tough social distancing rules have helped it contain prior outbreaks.
new south wales, australia's most populous state, and neighbouring queensland are on high alert after an infected woman and her husband travelled from victoria through several country towns in both states.
with no new cases on sunday, new south wales, which includes the largest city, sydney, has not reported any locally acquired infection in more than a month, while queensland last reported cases in late march.
get our daily newsletter
socialism and mamatha banerjee, tamil couple who went viral, tie the knot

man trying to board moving train slips, cop and train guard save his life.
watch

otter trapped inside car engine gets rescued in scotland

car drowns in sinkhole in mumbai, viral video shocks tweeple.
watch
get free access to newsletters, alerts and recommendations
an electronic board displays stock figures at the  philippine stock exchange in metro manila, the philippines.
(photographer: carlo gabuco/bloomberg)(bloomberg) -- treasury yields edged higher monday as investors prepared for a key federal reserve meeting later in the week.
stocks were mixed in thin trading.
ten-year treasury yields inched up to around 1.
46% after hitting three-month lows on thursday and notching their biggest weekly slide since december last week.
stocks saw modest gains in japan and a drop in south korea.
trading volumes were light with a number of holidays in the region including in australia, china and hong kong.
u. s.  futures were little changed after stocks staged a late rally friday, closing at another record after a choppy day of trading.
the dollar was steady against group-of-10 peers during early asia trading in the wake of a group-of-seven leadership meeting that emphasized unity.
with treasury yields trending downward, investors are anticipating the fed will reaffirm that its ultra-loose policy remains appropriate, and that it's too soon to start even contemplating tapering bond purchases.
still, officials could project interest-rate liftoff in 2023 amid faster economic growth and inflation, according to economists surveyed by bloomberg.
"the fomc continues to see the jump in inflation as transitory, and may acknowledge, even at the margin, that they are discussing the pace of monthly purchases but won't yet commit to a date for slowing the purchases," said prudential financial inc.  strategist quincy krosby in emailed comments.
elsewhere, bitcoin jumped over the weekend after elon musk said tesla would resume transactions with the cryptocurrency when mining it is done with more clean energy.
oil futures advanced.
for market commentary, follow the mliv blog.
here are some key events to watch this week:these are some of the main moves in markets:©2021 bloomberg l. p.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                petaling jaya: transport minister datuk seri dr wee ka siong (pic) and his singaporean counterpart s.  iswaran held their first virtual video call to discuss various issues pertaining to their portfolios.
"during our half-hour discussion, we spoke about several issues covering all transportation sectors that will bring mutual benefit to citizens of malaysia and singapore, " he said in a facebook post yesterday.
some of the thousands of malaysians who used to commute daily to singapore for work have been left stranded when the border closed.
singapore also suspended its reciprocal green lane cross-border travel scheme with malaysia following a spike in covid-19 cases across the causeway at the start of the year.
dr wee said that the two leaders shared the efforts taken by both countries to fight the covid-19 pandemic, including the vaccination programme as well as efforts to revive and stimulate the economy.
"we will also continue such discussions using various available channels although borders have been closed now due to the covid-19 pandemic, " said dr wee.
"certainly, the diplomatic relations between malaysia and singapore will continue to be strengthened for our mutual growth and prosperity, " he said.
tags / keywords:
transport ministry
                                                                ,
                                                                                                malaysia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                singapore



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
singapore: during phase 2 of singapore's reopening in 2020, when the maximum permissible group size was five, a man met nine other people at a hawker centre for a birthday gathering.
when safe-distancing ambassadors approached the group and asked them to stop mingling, the man turned aggressive and cursed at them.
idumehdrah arumugam, 44, was fined s$6,500 for his acts on friday (jun 11).
he pleaded guilty to one charge each of meeting others for a non-permitted purpose and using abusive words towards an auxiliary police officer.
another two charges were considered in sentencing.
the court heard that idumehdrah gathered with nine other people at newton food centre at about 2pm on oct 11, 2020 to celebrate a birthday.
idumehdrah consumed a large amount of alcohol with the others, said the prosecutor.
members of the public informed safe-distancing ambassadors and an auxiliary police officer tasked with enforcing covid-19 rules about the gathering.
the officer and two ambassadors approached the group at 5.
10pm and saw them mingling, failing to maintain safe distancing and smoking under a shelter in front of a stall.
the officer advised the group to stop mingling and to adhere to safe-distancing, but the group ignored him.
when he advised them again, idumehdrah suddenly turned aggressive.
he told him "go f*** off from here" and told one of the ambassadors multiple times to "f*** off".
he was openly aggressive towards the officer and the two ambassadors, and had to be held back by other members of the group.
one of the ambassadors lodged a police report.
the victims disengaged themselves from the group to prevent the matter from escalating further, but the group dispersed and left before the police arrived.
for breaching a covid-19 regulation, idumehdrah could have been jailed up to six months, fined up to s$10,000, or both.
for using abusive words on a public servant, he could have been jailed up to a year, fined up to s$5,000, or both.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore four young men in singapore had heart inflammation after receiving their second dose of covid-19 vaccine.
the men aged 18 to 30 have all recovered from myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the lining outside the heart), said the country's expert committee on the covid-19 vaccination in a statement on friday night (june 11).
most of the cases were reported to have occurred within a few days after the second jab.
this is out of a total of six such cases reported by the health sciences authority (hsa).
however, the benefits of getting a covid-19 jab outweigh the risks, said the expert committee.
as a precaution, the expert panel said vaccinated people, especially adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
during this period, they should seek medical attention if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats, it said.
"most cases are mild, recover without the need for significant intervention and do not suffer any long-term effects, although very rarely, severe cases may result in damage to the heart muscles," said the expert committee.
"our assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mrna covid-19 vaccines the reduction in covid-19 infections and severe complications even if infected continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination.
"the four cases reported by the hsa are aged between 18 and 30, and had their symptoms a few days after receiving the second dose of an mrna-based vaccine.
both covid-19 vaccines in singapore by pfizer-biontech and moderna use such technology.
all four men have recovered or have been discharged from hospital.
the expert committee added that the four cases here are at "the upper end of the expected range of this age group, based on background incidence rates".
"while further studies and investigations are ongoing, the currently available data suggests that there may be a very small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of an mrna vaccine, particularly in young men," it said.
the expert committee also said that heart inflammation following the second dose of the vaccine has been observed in israel and the united states in men below 25. the risk is estimated to be at 1.
6 cases per 100,000 doses in the us.
it added that there has been no increased risk associated with the first dose of the vaccine, and that the condition is generally more common in men than women.
in may, it was reported that 20 cases of anaphylaxis a severe life-threatening allergic reaction had happened in singapore in relation to the covid-19 vaccine.
in a separate update, the hsa said cases of myocarditis and pericarditis have been reported with covid-19 vaccines both overseas and locally.
myocarditis and pericarditis have many causes and most are due to viral infections and immunological reactions, it said, and in most cases, the inflammation is mild.
the authority has received six reports of myocarditis and pericarditis, of which four were in men younger than 30 years.
"hsa will continue to monitor this potential safety issue closely," it added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
written by roger cohena new israeli government united in its determination to oust prime minister benjamin netanyahu, but in agreement on little else, is set to take office sunday under a right-wing leader whose eight-party coalition includes the left and, for the first time, an independent arab party.
it looks like a recipe for chronic instability.
even sunday's confidence vote in the knesset, or parliament, that would usher in the first change in israeli leadership in a dozen years is not a done deal, given the razor-thin majority of naftali bennett's coalition with its 61 seats in the 120-member chamber.
but every indication is that the votes to make bennett prime minister are locked in, absent some eleventh-hour drama.
a signed coalition agreement was formally presented to the knesset secretariat friday, the last step before a vote and the swearing-in of the new government.
survival will then become the issue.
israel's parliamentary democracy veered in a presidential direction under netanyahu.
in the end, his increasingly dismissive style had alienated too many people, especially among nominal allies on the right.
agreement to return to democratic norms may be the underlying glue of the unlikely coalition.
"the parties are disparate, but they share a commitment to reconstitute israel as a functioning liberal democracy," said shlomo avineri, a prominent political scientist.
"in recent years we saw netanyahu begin to govern in a semi-authoritarian way.
"after agreement was reached friday on the government program, bennett said: "the government will work for all the israeli public — religious, secular, ultra-orthodox, arab — without exception, as one.
we will work together, out of partnership and national responsibility, and i believe we will succeed.
"success will require constant compromise.
"they will not deal with the highly contentious issues between left and right," said tamar hermann, a professor of political science at israel's open university.
in practice, that means a likely concentration on domestic rather than foreign affairs.
israel has not had a budget in more than two years of political turmoil and repetitive elections.
bennett, a self-made tech millionaire, is determined to deliver higher standards of living and prosperity to a population weary of such paralysis.
the delicate questions to be deferred or finessed would include any renewed peace negotiations with the palestinians and any major settlement expansion in the west bank.
although bennett was once a leader of the main settler movement in the west bank and has called for the annexation of parts of the territory israel captured in 1967, he seems certain to be constrained by centrist and left-wing members of the coalition and by the pragmatism that survival demands.
establishing good relations with the biden administration, a priority, and improving relations with america's majority liberal jewish community, another significant goal, will also require centrist restraint.
"hard core people of the right, we have the evidence, become more centrist in office," hermann said.
"bennett was not prime minister when he made his pro-settlement statements.
"bennett, 49, like other prominent members of the prospective cabinet, has waited a long time to emerge from netanyahu's shadow.
yair lapid, 57, the incoming foreign minister, and gideon saar, 54, who would become justice minister, are other prominent politicians of a generation weary of being sidelined by the man many israelis had come to dub the king of israel.
they will not want to return to the shadows.
lapid, a leading architect of the coalition, would become prime minister in two years under the deal that made an alternative to netanyahu possible — another incentive for him to help make the government work.
still, it may not.
the parties, ranging from bennett's yamina party on the right to labor and meretz on the left, disagree on everything from lgbtq rights to public transportation on shabbat.
they will come under withering, constant attack from netanyahu's center-right likud party.
it is conceivable that netanyahu will be ousted from likud at some point, whereupon the right-wing members of the coalition may return to their natural alliances.
"it's not going to be easy," said avraham diskin, a political scientist at hebrew university in jerusalem.
"i really doubt that lapid will become prime minister two years from now.
"among measures the prospective government has agreed on is legislation that would set a two-term limit for prime ministers.
in effect, this would preclude netanyahu redux.
four ministries will be shut down, including the digital and strategic affairs ministries.
netanyahu had a cabinet so large and unwieldy he could argue that he had to make decisions himself.
the prospective government will also pursue legislation designed to make it more difficult to change israel's basic laws, which serve as the constitutional foundation of the country in the absence of a constitution.
netanyahu, who had been indicted on fraud and other charges, appeared to seek a curtailing of the powers of the supreme court and immunity from prosecution as prime minister.
the presence of raam, an independent arab party, in government, will impact policy to some degree.
the disparities — in living standards, education and access to land — between israeli jews and the palestinian citizens of israel, who account for about 20% of the population, has become a burning issue.
violent clashes between the communities last month were the worst in two decades.
tensions remain high.
the government looks set to allocate almost $10 billion to close gaps between the communities over the next several years, freeze demolitions of unlicensed homes in arab areas, recognize three bedouin villages in the negev desert, improve public transportation, and increase policing in disadvantaged arab communities suffering from drug dealing and violence.
the posts promised to raam to secure its support include deputy minister in the prime minister's office and chairman of the knesset committee for arab affairs.
but tensions could flare at any moment.
most immediately, a nationalist march through muslim-majority areas of jerusalem's old city has been rescheduled for tuesday.
the original jerusalem day march last month was canceled because of hamas rocket fire and clashes between the police and palestinian protesters.
the issue remains highly sensitive, charged with the same emotions that led to a short war last month, despite efforts to agree on a less sensitive route for the march.
the political adroitness of bennett and lapid will be quickly tested.
📣 the indian express is now on telegram.
click here to join our channel (@indianexpress) and stay updated with the latest headlinesfor all the latest world news, download indian express app.
singapore – the ministry of health (moh) on saturday (12 june) confirmed 18 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,263. the ministry said in a press release that there are nine new community cases, with four linked to previous cases.
among them, three have already been placed on quarantine, and one was detected through surveillance.
the remaining five cases are currently unlinked.
this updated number of new community cases – the ministry had said there were 12 such cases in the afternoon – is because the moh withdrew three cases after they were verified to be negative for covid-19 upon further tests.
additionally, there are nine imported cases, who have already been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival in singapore.
all nine are returning singaporeans or singapore permanent residents.
the five unlinked cases currently are: an 18-year-old female singaporean who is a student at sim global education, and was last in school on 24 maya 27-year-old myanmar woman who is a foreign domestic worker.
a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port pte ltd (fully vaccinated) a 45-year-old female china national who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orcharda 68-year-old singaporean man who works as a landscape gardener at amozonia landscape pte ltd (fully vaccinated)the moh had earlier announced that ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday to 15 june for deep cleaning, following the detection of three covid-19 cases among those working at the mall.
the first case in this cluster is a 38-year-old indonesian man who is employed by marina offshore pte ltd as a sea crew on board tugboat marina ariel.
he was confirmed to have covid-19 infection on 11 june.
the two other cases in this cluster are workplace contacts of this case.
they tested positive while on quarantine and were announced on saturday: a 40-year-old indonesia man who is employed by marina offshore pte ltd as an engineer on board tugboat marina ariela 38-year-old indonesian man who is employed by marina offshore pte ltd as a sea crew on board tugboat marina arielthe other linked cases are: a 35-year-old female malaysia national who works as an administrative staff at ces lamination pte ltdan 82-year-old singaporean woman who regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market & hawker centre (fully vaccinated)among the nine imported cases, six are singaporeans and three are singapore permanent residents who returned from india, portugal, russia, thailand, the uk and us.
the ministry noted that the number of new cases in the community has decreased from 129 in the week before to 32 in the past week.
the number of unlinked cases in the community has also decreased from 20 in the week before to 14 in the past week.
singapore currently has 46 active covid-19 clusters.
authorities on thursday said that singapore will gradually move to phase 3 (heightened alert) in two steps, with one set of measures taking effect from 14 june and another from 21 june.
from 14 june, the size of social gatherings allowed in singapore will be increased to five people, up from the current limit of two persons.
dining in at food and beverage establishments, however, can only resume from 21 june provided that the covid-19 situation remains under control.
in addition, work-from-home will remain the default work arrangement in phase 3 (heightened alert).
with 39 more patients discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities on saturday, 61,838 cases – or 99.
3 per cent of the total – have fully recovered from the infection.
most of the 125 hospitalised cases are stable or improving, while one of them is in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
a total of 266 patients – with mild symptoms or are clinically well but still test positive – are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
apart from the 34 patients who have died from covid-19 complications, 15 others who tested positive for the virus were determined to have died from unrelated causes, including three whose deaths were attributed to a heart attack and another four, whose deaths were attributed to coronary heart disease.
among the 87 confirmed cases reported from 6 to 12 june, 46 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 25 have tested negative, and 16 serology test results are pending.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:covid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfcovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junework-from-home remains default arrangement in singapore's phase 3 (ha)4 covid art test kits on sale at 3 singapore pharmacies from 16 june: mtfchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
carbis bay, england: the group of seven richest democracies on saturday (jun 12) sought to counter china's growing influence by offering developing nations an infrastructure plan that would rival president xi jinping's multi-trillion-dollar belt and road initiative.
the g7, whose leaders are meeting in southwestern england and who discussed strategic competition with beijing, has been searching for a coherent response to the growing assertiveness of xi after china's surging economic and military rise over the past 40 years.
us president joe biden and other g7 leaders hope the plan, known as the build back better world (b3w) initiative, will provide a transparent infrastructure partnership to help narrow the us$40 trillion needed by developing nations by 2035, the white house said.
"this is not just about confronting or taking on china," a senior official in biden's administration said.
"but until now we haven't offered a positive alternative that reflects our values, our standards and our way of doing business.
"the g7 and its allies will use the initiative to mobilise private sector capital in areas such as climate, health and health security, digital technology, and gender equity and equality, the white house said.
it was not immediately clear how the plan would exactly work or how much capital it would ultimately allocate.
china's belt and road initiative (bri) is a multi-trillion-dollar infrastructure scheme that xi launched in 2013, involving development and investment initiatives that would stretch from asia to europe and beyond.
more than 100 countries have signed agreements with china to cooperate in bri projects like railways, ports, highways and other infrastructure.
critics say xi's plan to create a modern version of the ancient silk road trade route to link china with asia, europe and beyond is a vehicle for the expansion of communist china.
beijing says such doubts betray the "imperial hangover" of many western powers that humiliated china for centuries.
china's risethe re-emergence of china as a leading global power is considered to be one of the most significant geopolitical events of recent times, alongside the 1991 fall of the soviet union that ended the cold war.
china in 1979 had an economy that was smaller than italy's, but after opening to foreign investment and introducing market reforms, it has become the world's second-largest economy and is a global leader in a range of new technologies.
leaders of the g7 the united states, canada, britain, germany, italy, france and japan want to use their gathering in the seaside resort of carbis bay to show the world that the richest democracies can offer an alternative to china's growing clout.
the us official said that until now, the west had failed to offer a positive alternative to the "lack of transparency, poor environmental and labour standards, and coercive approach" of the chinese government that had left many countries worse off.
according to a refinitiv database, as of mid-last year, more than 2,600 projects at a cost of us$3.
7 trillion were linked to the initiative, although the chinese foreign ministry said last june that about 20 per cent of projects had been seriously affected by the covid-19 pandemic.
as part of the g7 plan, the united states will work with the us congress to supplement existing development financing and to "collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment," the white house said.
forced labourthe united states is pushing the other g7 leaders for "concrete action on forced labour" in china, and to include criticism of beijing in their final communique from a three-day summit in southwest england, the us official said.
biden planned to press the other leaders to make clear that they believe forced labour practices are an affront to human dignity and "an egregious example of china's unfair economic competition".
"we're pushing on being specific on areas like xinjiang where forced labour is taking place and where we have to express our values as a g7," the official said of the final communique to be issued at the end of the summit on sunday.
china denies all accusations of abuse in the xinjiang region.
the chinese foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the g7 infrastructure proposal or the us official's remarks about forced labour.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
how they can help in wealth creationtomorrow is different.
let's reshape it todaylet's get smarter about money#toughertogetherhunt for the brightest engineers in indiamental health awareness initiativethe dynamic duo of a holistic self-caremcdonald's has released a new celebrity meal 'bts meal' in collaboration with bts on may 27, 2021 in south korea.
the meal will be available in total of 49 countries.
trending nowpopular categorieshot on webin case you missed itet verticalsmore from our networkother useful linksservicesfind this comment offensive?choose your reason below and click on the report button.
this will alert our moderators to take actionreason for reporting:your reason has been reported to the admin.
log in/connect with:will be displayedwill not be displayedwill be displayedstories you might be interested in
by philip o'connor and jacob gronholt-pedersencopenhagen (reuters) -denmark midfielder christian eriksen was rushed to hospital after collapsing during his side's euro 2020 opening match with finland and being given cpr on the pitch on saturday, with soccer officials later saying the player was stable and awake.
eriksen collapsed suddenly in the 42nd minute of the match while running near the left touchline after a denmark throw-in.
as a hush fell over the 16,000-strong crowd, his teammates gathered around him and one appeared to stick his fingers in eriksen's mouth to clear his airway or check he hadn't swallowed his tongue.
as medics arrived on the scene and pumped eriksen's chest, his teammates formed a ring around him.
danish broadcaster dr cut the live tv feed, instead showing aerial footage of the stadium.
the 29-year-old was taken to the nearby rigshospitalet, where he regained conciousness.
"we have been in contact with him and the players have spoken to christian," said peter moller of the danish football association.
applause broke out in the parken stadium among both danish and finnish fans, when it was announced that eriksen had regained conciousness.
"he is doing well and they are playing the match for christian," moller said.
the game was initially suspended but resumed an hour and 45 minutes later, finland claiming a 1-0 victory when striker joel pohjanpalo headed in on the hour with his side's only attempt of the game.
a visibly drained denmark coach kasper hjulmand said after the match that the players were given the option to finish the game on saturday evening or on sunday.
"it was more manageable to go in again and honestly just get it over with," hjulmand said.
several players, including captain simon kjaer, were too overwhelmed by emotions to finish the game, he said.
"i completely understand that you can't play a soccer match at this level, after watching one of your best friends fight for his life," hjulmand said.
later in the day, belgian striker romelu lukaku, a teammate of eriksen at soccer club inter milan in italy, ran to a tv camera and shouted "chris, chris, i love you" after scoring in his side's opening match against russian.
people gathered outside bars in central copenhagen, many in tears, while eriksen's condition remained unclear.
the crowd at the parken stadium in copenhagen sang the danish national anthem and chanted "christian eriksen" while they waited for news, until word finally came through that the player had regained consciousness.
(reporting by philip o'connor, jacob gronholt-pedersen and stine jacobsen; editing by frances kerry, pravin char and hugh lawson)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"prøv niro plug-in hybrid og kom med på den elektriske bølge.
kør på strøm til hverdag og hybrid, når du skal langtwhat if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore employers here have no legal power to force staff members to disclose their covid-19 vaccination status or demand that they get inoculated.
experts and employers noted that while vaccination is strongly encouraged in singapore, it remains voluntary, although there are several ways people can be encouraged to get a jab.
these will come more into focus as singapore begins rolling out covid-19 vaccinations to the wider population, with bookings open to singaporeans aged 12 to 39 from friday (june 11).
singapore human resources institute (shri) president low peck kem told the straits times that unless there is a business need, employers should not compel staff to disclose if they have had a jab or take punitive action against those who do not get inoculated or refuse to update their vaccination status.
"even if there is a strong business need, such as needing to know in order to determine if the employee can travel for business or to deploy to higher-risk front-line facing roles, do explain clearly why the company needs to know the status and generally, most employees will comply," she said.
institute for human resource professionals (ihrp) chief executive mayank parekh said that bosses should not use non-vaccination as a reason to terminate employment as there could be medical reasons for why a staff member did not get a shot.
mr tan wei ming, senior associate at law firm cms holborn asia, said that if employers want to keep records on vaccinated employees that contain personal data such as names, they must do so in accordance with the personal data protection act and other applicable data protection laws.
"for these reasons, companies in singapore are unlikely to make their employees declare their vaccination status at this juncture," he added.
wongpartnership joint head of employment practice jenny tsin said staff members should not face discrimination arising from their vaccination status, given that its voluntary.
however, there could be circumstances that warrant a different approach, such as for jobs involving higher risk of exposure to covid-19, she added.
in this instance, it could be more justified to limit return to the workplace to only vaccinated employees.
investment bank goldman sachs recently ordered its employees in the united states to report their covid-19 vaccination status as part of their plans to return to the office, afp reported on thursday.
st understands that goldman sachs is not requiring staff here to report their vaccination status, and that most are still working from home.
while professional services firm ey strongly encourages its eligible staff to get vaccinated, it does not require them to declare their status given that immunisation is not mandatory, said the singapore and brunei managing partner max loh.
uob human resources head dean tong said the bank has been encouraging staff in critical roles to get vaccinated since the government announced its roll-out to essential workers in the financial sector in march.
st understands that uob does not track the vaccination status of employees.
meanwhile, sembcorp industries has introduced an app that provides voluntary updates on a person's vaccination status.
the app, which was developed in-house, is also used to obtain online approval for essential facility visits.
an amazon spokesman said that the company's employees and associates are generally not required to declare their vaccination status, except for staff members who are travelling to singapore from overseas.
the firm also provides a cash benefit to front-line employees and associates who are paid by the hour when they get their vaccination off-site.
shri's ms low and mr parekh from ihrp said employers can encourage immunisation by communicating the benefits to their staff as well as incentivising vaccination through means such as time off after getting the jabs and giving workers a care package.
mr samir bedi, asean workforce advisory leader at ey, noted that it would not be surprising to see employers including vaccination as a pre-requisite in job descriptions in future, particularly for front-line positions that require face-to-face interactions.
"this not only protects employees and their families, but also ensures the public's safety.
employees who travel for work may also need to comply with pre-travel vaccination travel regulations," he said.
but companies must remain inclusive and consider the needs of individuals who may not be able to get vaccinated due to health reasons, mr bedi said.
he added: "this requires employers to continue with precautionary safe workplace measures while ensuring equal career opportunities for all.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: two eateries have been ordered to close, and two supermarkets fined for breaching covid-19 safe management measures, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment on friday (jun 11).
the closure orders will take effect when dining-in is allowed to resume, said the ministry.
the first eatery ordered to close is the starz bistro at 66 east coast road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 22, and consume alcohol after 10.
30pm.
the urban redevelopment authority (ura) has ordered the establishment to close for 10 days.
the second eatery is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant at 367/369 beach road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 28 at 9.
30pm.
as this is its third offence, ura has ordered the establishment to close for 30 days.
singaporeimplemented tighter measures from may 16 to jun 13, including barring dining-in at food and beverage outlets.
two supermarkets were fined s$1,000 each for not having staff members to oversee the safe entry checkpoints: giant supermarket, located at bedok shopping complex and the cold storage outlet at siglap v. mse also said that since phase 2 (heightened alert) was implemented,77 individuals have been finedfor breaching safe management measures at parks.
agencies will also step up enforcement at hotspots where safe management measures are more frequently breached, including parks and hdb common areas, the ministry said.
on thursday, the ministry of health (moh) said that dining in can resume on jun 21 if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, as part ofsingapore's plan to move to phase 3 (heightened alert).
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
carbis bay, england: leaders of the world's largest economies unveiled an infrastructure plan saturday (jun 12) for the developing world to compete with china's global initiatives, but they were searching for a consensus on how to forcefully call out beijing over human rights abuses.
citing china for its forced labour practices is part of president joe biden's campaign to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing.
but while they agreed to work toward competing against china, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed biden's position, while germany, italy and the european union showed more hesitancy during saturday's first session of the group of seven summit, according to two senior biden administration officials.
the officials who briefed reporters were not authorised to publicly discuss the private meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.
the communique that summarises the meeting's commitments was being written and the contents would not be clear until it was released when the summit ended sunday.
white house officials said late saturday that they believed that china, in some form, could be called out for "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses".
in his first summit as president, biden made a point of carving out one-on-one-time with various leaders, bouncing from french president emmanuel macron to german chancellor angela merkel to italian prime minister mario draghi as well as japan's yoshihide suga and australia's scott morrison, a day after meeting with british prime minister boris johnson as if to personally try to ward off memories of the chaos that his predecessor would often bring to these gatherings.
macron told biden that collaboration was needed on a range of issues and told the american president that "it's great to have a us president part of the club and very willing to cooperate".
relations between the allies had become strained during the four years of donald trump's presidency and his "america first" foreign policy.
merkel, for her part, downplayed differences on china and the nord stream 2 pipeline which would transport natural gas from russia to germany, bypassing ukraine.
"the atmosphere is very cooperative, it is characterised by mutual interest," merkel said.
"there are very good, constructive and very vivid discussions in the sense that one wants to work together.
"white house officials have said biden wants the leaders of the g7 nations — the us, britain, canada, france, germany, japan and italy — to speak in a single voice against forced labour practices targeting china's uyghur muslims and other ethnic minorities.
biden hopes the denunciation will be part of a joint statement to be released sunday when the summit ends, but some european allies are reluctant to split so forcefully with beijing.
china had become one of the more compelling sublots of the wealthy nations' summit, their first since 2019.  last year's gathering was cancelled because of covid-19, and recovery from the pandemic is dominating this year's discussions, with leaders expected to commit to sharing at least 1 billion vaccine shots with struggling countries.
the allies also took the first steps in presenting an infrastructure proposal called "build back better for the world", a name echoing biden's campaign slogan.
the plan calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labour practices.
it's designed to compete with china's trillion-dollar "belt and road initiative" which has launched a network of projects and maritime lanes that snake around large portions of the world, primarily asia and africa.
critics say china's projects often create massive debt and expose nations to undue influence by beijing.
britain also wants the world's democracies to become less reliant on the asian economic giant.
the uk government said saturday's discussions would tackle "how we can shape the global system to deliver for our people in support of our values", including by diversifying supply chains that currently heavily depend on china.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with china as the defining competition for the 21st century.
but there are some signs that europe is willing to impose greater scrutiny.
before biden took office in january, the european commission announced it had come to terms with beijing on a deal meant to provide europe and china with greater access to each other's markets.
the biden administration had hoped to have consultations on the pact.
but the deal has been put on hold, and the european union in march announcedsanctions targeting four chinese officialsinvolved with human rights abuses in xinjiang.
beijing responded with penalties on several members of the european parliament and other europeans critical of the chinese communist party.
biden administration officials see an opportunity to take concrete action to speak out against china's reliance on forced labour as an "affront to human dignity".
while calling out china in the g7 communique would not create any immediate penalties for beijing, one senior administration official said the action would send a message that the leaders were serious about defending human rights and working together to eradicate the use of forced labour.
an estimated 1 million people or more — most of them uyghurs — have been confined in reeducation camps in china's western xinjiang region in recent years, according to researchers.
chinese authorities have been accused of imposing forced labor, systematic forced birth control, torture and separating children from incarcerated parents.
beijing rejects allegations that it is committing crimes.
johnson, the summit host, also welcomed the leaders from "guest nations" south korea, australia and south africa, as well as the head of the united nations, to the summit to "intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations".
the leaders planned to attend a barbecue saturday night, complete with toasted marshmallows, hot buttered rum and a performance by a sea shanty troupe.
india was also invited but its delegation is not attending in person because of the severe coronavirus outbreak in the country.
biden ends the trip wednesday by meeting in geneva with russia's vladimir putin.
the white house announced saturday that they will not hold a joint news conference afterward, which removes the opportunity for comparisons to the availability that followed trump and putin's 2018 helsinki summit, in which trump sided with moscow over his own intelligence agencies.
only biden will address the news media after the meeting.
putin, in an interview with nbc news, said the us-russia relationship had "deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years".
he added that while trump was a "talented" and "colourful" person, biden was a "career man" in politics, which has "some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements" by the us president.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
taipei • thailand is prioritising astrazeneca covid-19 vaccines produced in the country for itself due to the severity of the pandemic there, which has delayed deliveries to taiwan, president tsai ing-wen said.
taiwan is dealing with a spike in domestic infections and only 3 per cent of its 23.
5 million people have received at least one shot of vaccination so far, with millions of doses on order that have yet to arrive.
"the problem is that the goods that were supposed to have arrived in june have not," ms tsai told a taiwanese radio station yesterday.
taiwan has ordered 10 million doses from astrazeneca, which is mainly producing the shots in thailand, she said.
"now thailand's epidemic situation is serious and they are giving priority for vaccines to be used in thailand," ms tsai added.
thailand has reported 189,828 infections, with more than 80 per cent of the new cases and fatalities coming since april.
neither astrazeneca nor thai government officials immediately responded to requests for comment.
taiwan's health minister chen shih-chung told lawmakers on tuesday that orders from astrazeneca would be delayed by a month due to production problems at the firm's thai plant.
taiwan received 1.
24 million astrazeneca doses donated by japan last week, and the united states has pledged 750,000 shots, but no details have been provided on that.
ms tsai said the government has been having "emergency" talks with the us and japan to see what other vaccines they may be able to give.
the president has come under pressure to do more to speed up vaccine deliveries, and yesterday expressed apologies for the infections and deaths.
mr chen told parliament that government-run research centre academia sinica has made good progress on mrna technology and contacted moderna about working with it on vaccines.
moderna did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
taiwan has received just 150,000 moderna doses of more than five million on order.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the law came into effect on thursday, adding to china's toolbox as it builds its defences against us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
the move also came just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest -- allowing beijing to now hit back at those who formulate or comply with foreign sanctions.
"european companies in china are shocked by the lack of transparency and speed of this process," european chamber president joerg wuttke told afp, referring to the passing of the new law.
with the fresh rules prohibiting organisations from implementing what beijing deems discriminatory and restrictive measures, "foreign firms remain very much stuck between a rock and a hard place," he said.
american chamber of commerce chairman greg gilligan cautioned that the new law "presents potentially irreconcilable compliance problems for foreign companies".
rushing through a new law without an opportunity for public comment severely jeopardises foreign investor confidence in china's legal system as well, he added.
but chinese foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin told a regular press briefing on friday he did not see a definite link between the new law and foreign investment.
"if anything, the enactment of the anti-foreign sanctions law provides a predictable legal environment.
.
.
for foreign companies operating in china," he said.
wuttke, however, warned that the action was not conducive to attracting investment, or in reassuring companies that "already feel they may be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess".
"there is a real concern that this will further destabilise eu-china relations," he said.
in the european chamber's latest business confidence survey released this week, 41 per cent of respondents said china's business environment had become more politicised last year.
most reported they expect the situation to remain the same or deteriorate over the coming year.
bys-ehl/jfxit is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bila taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore last year, several countries in south-east asia were among the poster boys for their deft handling of the covid-19 pandemic.
now, they are battling a resurgence in infections.
case numbers are still low compared with other hot spots like india and brazil but governments in the region, nonetheless, have initiated lockdowns and ramped up testing.
they have also accelerated vaccination drives by rolling out public awareness campaigns, ironing out flaws in previous policies, scaling up inoculation efforts and dangling incentives all of which are part of the effort to protect their people and open up economies battered by the pandemic.
"south-east asia has done a wonderful job during the first wave of the pandemic but people later lowered their guard and this gave the virus free rein on the ground.
the governments have tried to ramp up their vaccination campaigns but with the exception of singapore they still have a long way to go," dr abhishek rimal, kuala lumpur-based regional emergency health coordinator at the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies (ifrc), told the straits times.
singapore is the region's leader in vaccinations, with more than 30 per cent of the population fully vaccinated.
it has allowed children from the age of 12 to be vaccinated and month-long restrictions put in place to combat a spike in cases look set to be eased from monday (june 14).
but many of singapore's neighbours are hampered by slow progress in their vaccination campaigns, with most having inoculated less than 10 per cent of their population.
several countries are now working to speed up their efforts.
indonesia, which has given out more than 30 million shots mostly to the elderly, health workers and those with disabilities is allowing old folk to turn up at any designated facility for a jab without prior registration, while offering shots to the young if they help bring in those aged 60 years and above to be inoculated.
indonesia has asked china for technical assistance to help it become a regional production hub for the covid-19 vaccine.
a man receiving a dose of vaccine during a mass inoculation exercise in banda aceh, indonesia, on june 9, 2021.  photo: epa-efe
malaysia, which is in the throes of another lockdown after registering record-high cases and deaths in recent weeks, has opened up mega vaccination centres to inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
vaccine trucks have been deployed to areas where people might find it difficult to get to an immunisation centre.
close to four per cent of malaysia's 32 million population a total of 1.
22 million are now fully vaccinated.
the government has said that 16 million vaccine doses will arrive in the next two months.
thailand has set a target to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
it has announced plans to open up the tourist resort of phuket next month for fully vaccinated tourists.
the thai government has also allowed private and local administrative organisations to procure covid-19 vaccines, but only through approved agencies such as the national vaccine institute and the thai red cross society.
health workers attending to a woman about to receive a dose of covid-19  vaccine at an inoculation centre set up at the central eastville shopping mall in bangkok, on june 7, 2021.  photo: bloomberg
cambodia has mobilised the army to inoculate its citizens and the one millionth and two millionth vaccinated person received 10 million riel (s$3,244) each.
laos has banned the purchase of covid-19 vaccines by private entities in order to stave off complaints about inequality in the country, while neighbouring vietnam once a model for its successful handling of the pandemic has appealed to the public to donate to a covid-19 vaccine fund as it struggles to contain a new wave of the disease.
an electrical box painted with a covid-19 theme in hanoi on june 7, 2021.  about 16 electrical boxes in ha ba trung district have been painted this way to promote hand washing and the wearing of face masks.
photo: epa-efe
the philippines has extended vaccinations to children aged between 12 and 15, while private firms are allowed to procure vaccines for their workers without having to donate part of their shipments to the government.
in order to help shore up confidence in the vaccine programme and tackle the issue of vaccine hesitancy, local celebrities were roped in to get their jabs publicly, while some cities and towns went a step further by offering everything from cattle to land to property in a bid to entice people to get their jabs.
registration booths set up inside a cinema complex for citizens preparing to be vaccinated in san juan city, metro manila, on june 1, 2021.  photo: reuters
despite their best efforts to bump up vaccinations, countries in the region still face various challenges, chief among them getting enough vaccines.
it is estimated that the region will need some 1.
4 billion doses to cover the entire population of more than 650 million, leading some analysts to caution that this would be a formidable challenge since the global demand for vaccines outstrips supply.
some countries are only receiving their first stocks now.
impoverished timor leste received its first batch of vaccine doses from covax, comprising 24,000 astrazeneca doses, only on april 5 this year.
it received 100,000 doses of sinovac vaccines from china on june 7. covax is the world health organisation-led initiative to secure vaccine supplies for developing countries.
"slow vaccine roll-out will have critical consequences for south-east asia," ms hanh nguyen and mr james borton wrote in the international intelligence publication, geopolitical monitor, on may 25.
"for a region that relies heavily on export and tourism, the low vaccine coverage plus closed border policy mean countries will not open their economies soon, thus missing out on economic opportunities as the west gradually reopens.
"another issue has been competition between the west and china as beijing expands its vaccine diplomacy in the region.
apart from sales, china has donated vaccines to cambodia, laos, myanmar and the philippines.
"as of right now, china stands out in its vaccine diplomacy efforts a move that the global superpower will likely use to solidify its position within the south-east asia," mr shazwan mustafa kamal, a senior associate with political risk and public consultancy vriens & partners, told st. the united states has recently announced plans to donate seven million doses to south asia and south-east asia, while the g-7 is expected to donate one billion vaccine doses to the world's poorest countries.
but mr shazwan said western powers appeared to be playing catch-up to china.
"south-east asian nations will be in an unenviable position in balancing china's overtures as well as their relationships with the us," he added.
dr kevin s. y.  tan, a visiting senior fellow at iseas-yusof ishak institute who has written about vaccination efforts in the region, said it is too early to ascertain whether china's vaccine diplomacy will lead to any significant geopolitical shifts.
"if the pandemic drags on and if other vaccine sources are somehow limited, there will naturally be a greater dependency on chinese vaccines.
such vaccine dependency, in the long run, may bolster china's standing among south-east asian nations," he told st. logistics is another major issue in a region marked by vastly different terrain, from modern cities to rural mountainous areas and far-flung islands.
this comes on top of poor infrastructure and limited resources to distribute and store vaccines, a significant roadblock for rapid deployment, especially for last-mile delivery.
experts fear that if this is not overcome, the overall recovery for any nation will be difficult and time-consuming, especially if coronavirus variants lead to new waves of infection.
as such, it is important that governments ensure the necessary infrastructure is in place, said iseas' dr tan, especially for vaccines with ultra-cold storage requirements.
"but if such infrastructure is unrealistic at the moment, then a decision to use more 'logistically friendly' vaccines may be a pragmatic and feasible approach," said dr tan, who is also an adjunct faculty member at the school of global studies in thailand's thammasat university.
another issue that could hamper the region's success in tamping down the virus is the ongoing civil unrest in myanmar.
political instability in the country has exacerbated an already overstretched healthcare system and observers fear it is in danger of turning into the next covid-19 epicentre.
locals told st the military government has set up vaccination centres but not many people are turning up for the jabs due to high distrust of the military junta's capability to administer, store and transport the vaccines.
many have also refused to get vaccinated as a mark of protest against the junta.
"i am not getting vaccinated as i do not trust the quality and efficacy of the vaccines after the coup.
my friends and family pretty much hold the same view as well," investment analyst ye salween, 31, told st. the jury is still out on whether the region can be fully vaccinated by the end of next year, a target set for the world by british prime minister boris johnson.
ifrc's dr abhishek described it as an "ambitious" target while iseas' dr tan said to do so would require a "colossal effort" which can be achieved, but only with support from foreign countries.
"this is because not a single country in the region has come up with its own home-made vaccine against covid-19 so far.
as a region, we are still dependent on supplies and support from sources beyond south-east asia and this is a glaring vulnerability that may need to be addressed," said dr tan.
professor paul tambyah, president of the asia-pacific society of clinical microbiology and infection, said locally manufactured vaccines were "the obvious answer", noting that middle-income countries such as indonesia, thailand and malaysia had well established vaccine-manufacturing capacity.
"the key has to be the trips waiver," he told st, referring to the world trade organisation's (wto) agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights that governs the transfer of property like movie rights or vaccine-manufacturing specifics.
"with the trips waiver on patents, south-east asian countries could rapidly scale up vaccine production.
"he added that, without the constraints of the patents, mass vaccination could be rolled out very quickly the way measles and polio vaccines, which were locally made, led to the virtual elimination of these diseases.
as of now though, reports say malaysia and the philippines will experience delays in the delivery of the astrazeneca vaccine manufactured in thailand.
that is going to exacerbate the situation in the philippines, in particular, because some vaccination sites in the capital, manila, have been closed due to the shortage of vaccines.
mr jose ma luis montesclaros, an associate research fellow at the s.  rajaratnam school of international studies, has suggested that asean should support the private sector to develop vaccine production capacity.
"i feel that expanding the supplies of vaccines is something that benefits not only the vaccine- producing/recipient countries, but the world over, given the interconnected nature of global trade and investments," he told st. "the sooner countries are able to solve the health problem, the sooner they can begin working on economic recovery," he added.
• allowing the elderly to go to any designated vaccination facility without prior registration.
• younger indonesians are eligible for shots if they help bring in those aged 60 years and older to get vaccinated.
• aiming to become a regional production hub for covid-19 vaccine.
• set up mega vaccination centres that can inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
• deploying vaccine trucks to rural communities.
• government has pledged 16 million doses of vaccines in the next two months.
• targeting to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
• shopping malls and supermarkets are among the 25 vaccination sites in bangkok.
• aiming to open up phuket for vaccinated tourists next month.
• approved vaccinations for children between the ages of 12 and 15.
• several towns and cities are offering cows, bags of rice, land and properties to entice people to get jabs.
• deploying vaccine buses to reach poorer, less accessible districts.
• residents sent text messages urging them to contribute to a covid-19 vaccine fund.
• looking to buy covid-19 vaccine production technology and build a plant to supply vaccines for the covax programme.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new york (bloomberg) a malaysian financier and a former member of hiphop trio the fugees were accused in a new indictment of illegally lobbying the trump administration to drop an investigation tied to the 1mdb global bribery scandal and remove a chinese dissident from the us.
a federal grand jury on thursday returned a superseding indictment against low taek jho, also known as jho low, and prakazrel "pras" michel, according to a justice department statement on friday (june 11).
low and michel's aim was to influence then-president donald trump's justice department to abandon the probe of low and others and extradite a wealthy chinese exile who has criticised the government in beijing.
that exile has not been identified by the justice department, but a person familiar with the matter has said it is guo wengui.
both low and michel were charged with money-laundering conspiracy, while michel was also accused of witness tampering and conspiring to make false statements to banks.
"pras intends to defend this case very vigorously and believes that when all of the facts are developed, a jury will conclude that this was a selective prosecution that has unfairly targeted mr michel and will exonerate him," michel's lawyer, benjamin brafman, said in a statement.
with lauryn hill and wyclef jean, michel was a member of the fugees, which had some of the biggest hits of the 1990s.
low and michel were previously charged in 2019 with seeking to funnel millions of dollars of low's money into the us presidential election as legitimate campaign contributions while hiding the actual source of the funds.
prosecutors said the two men worked closely with trump fund-raiser elliott broidy, who pleaded guilty last year to illegally lobbying the trump administration to help low squelch the 1mdb investigation and to seek the extradition of wengui from the us trump pardoned broidy in january.
the back-channel efforts failed.
low was indicted in 2018 on charges of conspiring to launder billions of dollars embezzled from 1mdb.
low has denied wrongdoing and is considered a fugitive.
low had been a little-known financier who built an us$8 billion (s$10 billion)  fund intended to develop the malaysian economy.
authorities in the us and malaysia allege he spent the pilfered money on parties, sports cars, luxury properties and priceless art.
goldman sachs group admitted its role in the scheme and its malaysia unit pleaded guilty last year, agreeing to pay more than us$2.
3 billion in financial penalties, the largest in american history for violating us anti-bribery laws.
the unit was sentenced on wednesday, triggering a us$1.
26 billion payment for goldman sachs for the remaining fines.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the hong kong government on friday enacted new guidelines that allow authorities to censor films on the basis of safeguarding national security, escalating concerns over freedoms in the former british colony.
the government said the changes that give the film censor authority to ban films perceived as promoting or glorifying acts or activities that could endanger national security take effect from friday.
the film censorship authority should stay "vigilant to the portrayal, depiction or treatment of any act or activity which may amount to an offence endangering national security", the government said in a statement.
"any content of a film which is objectively and reasonably capable of being perceived as endorsing, supporting, promoting, such act or activity" will be censored, according to the guideline.
[[nid:522086]]beijing imposed a national security law on hong kong in june that punishes what authorities broadly define as secession, sedition and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail, following a year of sometimes violent pro-democracy demonstrations.
western governments and international human rights groups have expressed concern the security law will crush freedoms in hong kong.
a filmmaker surnamed tang said the amendment would legitimise a crackdown on protest-related films and create a chilling effect on the movie industry.
"movies on social issues will be banned.
it will silence the filmmakers," tang said.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                washington d. c.  (bloomberg): fugitive malaysian financier low taek jho and a former member of hip-hop trio the fugees were accused in a new indictment of illegally lobbying the trump administration to drop an investigation tied to the 1malaysia development bhd (1mdb) global bribery scandal and remove a chinese dissident from the united states.
a federal grand jury on thursday (june 10) returned a superseding indictment against low, better known as jhow low, and prakazrel "pras" michel, according to a justice department statement friday (june 11).
low and michel's aim was to influence then-president donald trump's justice department to abandon the probe of low and others and extradite a wealthy chinese exile who has criticised the government in beijing.
that exile has not been identified by the justice department, but a person familiar with the matter has said it is guo wengui.
both low and michel were charged with money-laundering conspiracy, while michel was also accused of witness tampering and conspiring to make false statements to banks.
"pras intends to defend this case very vigorously and believes that when all of the facts are developed, a jury will conclude that this was a selective prosecution that has unfairly targeted mr michel and will exonerate him, " michel's lawyer, benjamin brafman, said in a statement.
with lauryn hill and wyclef jean, michel was a member of the fugees, which had some of the biggest hits of the 1990s.
low and michel were previously charged in 2019 with seeking to funnel millions of dollars of low's money into the us presidential election as legitimate campaign contributions while hiding the actual source of the funds.
prosecutors said the two men worked closely with trump fundraiser elliott broidy, who pleaded guilty last year to illegally lobbying the trump administration to help low squelch the 1mdb investigation and to seek the extradition of wengui from the united states.
trump pardoned broidy in january.
the back-channel efforts failed.
low was indicted in 2018 on charges of conspiring to launder billions of dollars embezzled from 1mdb.
low has denied wrongdoing and is considered a fugitive.
low had been a little-known financier who built a us$8bil (rm32.
86bil) fund intended to develop the malaysian economy.
authorities in the united states and malaysia allege he spent the pilfered money on parties, sports cars, luxury properties and priceless art.
goldman sachs group inc admitted its role in the scheme and its malaysia unit pleaded guilty last year, agreeing to pay more than us$2.
3bil (rm9.
45bil) in financial penalties, the largest in american history for violating us anti-bribery laws.
the unit was sentenced wednesday (june 9), triggering a us$1.
26bil (rm5.
18bil) payment for goldman sachs for the remaining fines.
bloomberg
tags / keywords:
jhow low
                                                                ,
                                                                                                1mdb
                                                                ,
                                                                                                united states
                                                                ,
                                                                                                trump
                                                                ,
                                                                                                china
                                                                ,
                                                                                                extradite
                                                                ,
                                                                                                justice department



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
cleaners from hong ye group were also linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test — both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases — an 82-year-old singaporean woman — was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for republication.
this story was submitted via web contribution form.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
this story was submitted via web contribution form.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
a motorcyclist and his pillion rider died after an accident with a car along the pan island expressway (pie) towards changi airport on wednesday (june 9).
the police told stomp they were alerted to the accident at 8.
43am.
a 52-year-old male motorcyclist was pronounced dead at the scene by a paramedic, a police spokesman said.
his 42-year-old female pillion rider was unconscious when taken to hospital where she subsequently died from her injuries.
police investigations are ongoing.
several stompers alerted stomp to a photo circulating online of a death tent near a railing.
this accident happened just 200 metres away and 14 minutes before another accident occurred on the pie towards tuas.
in that incident, a 35-year-old male motorcyclist and his 28-year-old male pillion rider were conscious when taken to the hospital after a collision with a car.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
st blazey, england (reuters) britain's queen elizabeth met us president joe biden under the canopy of the world's largest indoor rainforest on friday (june 11) as she hosted a reception for leaders of the group of seven (g-7) richest nations, who are holding a three-day summit.
the 95-year-old monarch was joined by the other senior members of the british royal family, with son and heir prince charles and his wife camilla and grandson prince william and his wife kate also present.
it was their first major public event together since the funeral in april of prince philip, the queen's husband of more than seven decades.
at the reception, held at the eden project, whose distinctive bubble-like biomes house thousands of plant varieties, the queen met biden as us president for the first time.
he is 13th american leader she has met during her record-breaking 69-year reign.
"joe and i are both looking forward to meeting the queen," biden's wife jill, who joined him at the eden project event, had said on thursday.
"that's an exciting part of the visit for us.
"they are also due to have tea with the monarch at windsor castle on sunday after the summit has concluded.
following a photocall with the queen, prince charles addressed the g-7 leaders about his sustainable markets initiative, which aims to involve business and private sector investment in government efforts to combat climate change.
"the fight against this terrible pandemic provides, if ever one was needed, a crystal-clear example of the scale, and sheer speed, at which the global community can tackle crises when we combine political will with business ingenuity and public mobilization," the prince told them.
"ladies and gentlemen, we are doing it for the pandemic.
so if you don't mind me saying so, we must also do it for the planet," said charles, 72, who has spent much of his life campaigning on environmental issues.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
keep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storieskeep up to speed at a glance with the top 10 daily storiescarbis bay, england (ap) — leaders of the world's largest economies unveiled an infrastructure plan saturday for the developing world to compete with china's global initiatives, but they were searching for a consensus on how to forcefully to call out beijing over human rights abuses.
citing china for its forced labor practices is part of president joe biden's campaign to persuade fellow democratic leaders to present a more unified front to compete economically with beijing.
but while they agreed to work toward competing against china, there was less unity on how adversarial a public position the group should take.
canada, the united kingdom and france largely endorsed biden's position, while germany, italy and the european union showed more hesitancy during saturday's first session of the group of seven summit, according to two senior biden administration officials.
the officials who briefed reporters were not authorized to publicly discuss the private meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.
the communique that summarizes the meeting's commitments was being written and the contents would not be clear until it was released when the summit ended sunday.
white house officials said late saturday that they believed that china, in some form, could be called out for "nonmarket policies and human rights abuses.
"in his first summit as president, biden made a point of carving out one-on-one-time with various leaders, bouncing from french president emmanuel macron to german chancellor angela merkel to italian prime minister mario draghi as well as japan's yoshihide suga and australia's scott morrison, a day after meeting with british prime minister boris johnson as if to personally try to ward off memories of the chaos that his predecessor would often bring to these gatherings.
macron told biden that collaboration was needed on a range of issues and told the american president that "it's great to have a u. s.  president part of the club and very willing to cooperate. "
relations between the allies had become strained during the four years of donald trump's presidency and his "america first" foreign policy.
merkel, for her part, downplayed differences on china and the nord stream 2 pipeline which would transport natural gas from russia to germany, bypassing ukraine.
"the atmosphere is very cooperative, it is characterized by mutual interest," merkel said.
"there are very good, constructive and very vivid discussions in the sense that one wants to work together.
"white house officials have said biden wants the leaders of the g-7 nations — the u. s. , britain, canada, france, germany, japan and italy — to speak in a single voice against forced labor practices targeting china's uyghur muslims and other ethnic minorities.
biden hopes the denunciation will be part of a joint statement to be released sunday when the summit ends, but some european allies are reluctant to split so forcefully with beijing.
china had become one of the more compelling sublots of the wealthy nations' summit, their first since 2019.  last year's gathering was canceled because of covid-19, and recovery from the pandemic is dominating this year's discussions, with leaders expected to commit to sharing at least 1 billion vaccine shots with struggling countries.
the allies also took the first steps in presenting an infrastructure proposal called "build back better for the world," a name echoing biden's campaign slogan.
the plan calls for spending hundreds of billions of dollars in collaboration with the private sector while adhering to climate standards and labor practices.
it's designed to compete with china's trillion-dollar "belt and road initiative," which has launched a network of projects and maritime lanes that snake around large portions of the world, primarily asia and africa.
critics say china's projects often create massive debt and expose nations to undue influence by beijing.
britain also wants the world's democracies to become less reliant on the asian economic giant.
the u. k.  government said saturday's discussions would tackle "how we can shape the global system to deliver for our people in support of our values," including by diversifying supply chains that currently heavily depend on china.
not every european power has viewed china in as harsh a light as biden, who has painted the rivalry with china as the defining competition for the 21st century.
but there are some signs that europe is willing to impose greater scrutiny.
before biden took office in january, the european commission announced it had come to terms with beijing on a deal meant to provide europe and china with greater access to each other's markets.
the biden administration had hoped to have consultations on the pact.
but the deal has been put on hold, and the european union in march announced sanctions targeting four chinese officials involved with human rights abuses in xinjiang.
beijing responded with penalties on several members of the european parliament and other europeans critical of the chinese communist party.
biden administration officials see an opportunity to take concrete action to speak out against china's reliance on forced labor as an "affront to human dignity.
"while calling out china in the g-7 communique would not create any immediate penalties for beijing, one senior administration official said the action would send a message that the leaders were serious about defending human rights and working together to eradicate the use of forced labor.
an estimated 1 million people or more — most of them uyghurs — have been confined in reeducation camps in china's western xinjiang region in recent years, according to researchers.
chinese authorities have been accused of imposing forced labor, systematic forced birth control, torture and separating children from incarcerated parents.
beijing rejects allegations that it is committing crimes.
johnson, the summit host, also welcomed the leaders from "guest nations" south korea, australia and south africa, as well as the head of the united nations, to the summit to "intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations.
"the leaders planned to attend a barbecue saturday night, complete with toasted marshmallows, hot buttered rum and a performance by a sea shanty troupe.
india was also invited but its delegation is not attending in person because of the severe coronavirus outbreak in the country.
biden ends the trip wednesday by meeting in geneva with russia's vladimir putin.
the white house announced saturday that they will not hold a joint news conference afterward, which removes the opportunity for comparisons to the availability that followed trump and putin's 2018 helsinki summit, in which trump sided with moscow over his own intelligence agencies.
only biden will address the news media after the meeting.
putin, in an interview with nbc news, said the u. s. -russia relationship had "deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years.
"he added that while trump was a "talented" and "colorful" person, biden was a "career man" in politics, which has "some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements" by the u. s.  president.
___lemire reported from plymouth, england.
associated press writers danica kirka and sylvia hui in falmouth, england, contributed to this report.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
italy got their euro 2020 campaign off the mark with an impressive 3-0 win over turkey in the curtain-raiser for the postponed continental tournament in front of their home fans in rome on friday.
playing their first major tournament in five years after failing to qualify for the 2018 world cup, all the goals came in the second half in front of a stadio olimpico that was filled to a quarter of its capacity.
merih demiral's own goal put italy ahead before ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne netted for roberto mancini's side in the group a opener.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
"it was important to start well in rome and i think it's a satisfaction for the public and for italians," said mancini, whose side are now on a 28-match unbeaten run.
"there was a lot of help from the crowd.
it was a beautiful evening, i hope there are many others, but there are still six more for wembley.
""we were hoping for another result, but italy was dominant," said turkey coach senol gunes.
"the first goal changed things in the second half and we lost control of the game.
"there was a party atmosphere, with a spectacular sound and light show and firework display before kick-off for the opening of the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
berardi impresses -on the pitch, italy dominated early on with a three-man attack led by immobile, who plays for lazio.
the 31-year-old had several near misses in the first half, coming up against a solid turkey defence who held their own.
turkey could also thank goalkeeper ugurcan cakir for pulling off a big save on 23 minutes, tipping over italy captain giorgio chiellini's powerful goal-bound header off an insigne corner.
italy finally got on the scoreboard eight minutes after the break when the unfortunate demiral found himself in the path of a federico berardi cross for immobile, the juventus defender bundling the ball into his own net.
leonardo spinazzola had a chance for a second minutes later, with immobile sending the rebound wide.
immobile finally got his goal, his 14th for italy, and first in a major tournament, in the 66th minute, scoring from a rebound after cakir had saved from spinazzola.
and insigne curled in the third with 11 minutes to go.
sassuolo winger berardi had a role in all three goals, with italy scoring three for the first time in a european championship match.
all three italy forwards proved efficient on the night with a defence organised around juventus veterans chiellini and leonardo bonucci holding firm, securing a ninth straight clean sheet.
"we struggled at the start, we tried to accelerate but we hit a wall," said immobile.
"in the second half, they were a little more tired, they tried to rush us but the spaces opened up, and we saw our quality at that time.
"gianluigi donnarumma was largely unworried in the italy goal apart from a dangerous burak yilmaz cross after half an hour and a solo run by cengiz under after coming off the bench after the break.
"from a tactical point of view, italy was superior," said gunes.
"italy mastered the pitch and the ball.
they suffocated us with pressing and high pace, and they took advantage of playing at home.
"we have to react now.
"italy, looking for a second european title after 1968, next play switzerland in rome on wednesday, with 2008 semi-finalists turkey taking on wales in baku.
ea/jcchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
tjek lige prisen på zen med bl.
a.
7" easy link skærm med navigation og multi-sense køreprogrammer!
forbrug 66,67 km/l, 32 g/km co2 (bl.
kørsel wltp).
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore it was one day before the photo shoot and i was panicking.
i had stuffed about 10 outfits, two pairs of shoes, a straw tote bag and an umbrella into my carry-on luggage, but i was still missing something oh, a picnic mat.
how else would i recreate a photo i had spotted on instagram, in which a young woman lounged on the grassy lawn of marina barrage, with branded sandals and bag casually strewn to the side?please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
carbis bay, england: china on sunday (jun 13) pointedly cautioned group of seven leaders that the days when "small" groups of countries decided the fate of the world was long gone, hitting back at the world's richest democracies which have sought a unified position over beijing.
"the days when global decisions were dictated by a small group of countries are long gone," a spokesman for the chinese embassy in london said.
"we always believe that countries, big or small, strong or weak, poor or rich, are equals, and that world affairs should be handled through consultation by all countries.
"the re-emergence of china as a leading global power is considered to be one of the most significant geopolitical events of recent times, alongside the 1991 fall of the soviet union that ended the cold war.
the g7, whose leaders are meeting in southwestern england, has been searching for a coherent response to the growing assertiveness of president xi jinping after china's spectacular economic and military rise over the past 40 years.
leaders of the group the united states, canada, britain, germany, italy, france and japan want to use their gathering in the english seaside resort of carbis bay to show the world that the richest democracies can offer an alternative to china's growing clout.
canadian prime minister justin trudeau led a g7 discussion of china on saturday and called on leaders to come up with a unified approach to the challenges posed by the people's republic, a source said.
the g7 are planning to offer developing nations an infrastructure scheme that could rival xi's multi-trillion-dollar belt and road initiative.
beijing has repeatedly hit back against what it perceives as attempts by western powers to contain china, and says many major powers are still gripped by an outdated imperial mindset after years of humiliating china.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's movement control order, known as mco 3.
0, will be extended for another two weeks from jun 15 to jun 28. senior minister for defence ismail sabri yaakob announced in a statement on friday (jun 11) that the decision to extend the mco 3.
0 was made as daily case numbers still exceeded 5,000.
"the positive/negative list (permitted and prohibited activities) and standard operating procedures (sops) for every manufacturing, business and industrial activity still remains as announced before this," he said after attending a national security council meeting.
in may, a nationwide mco was re-imposed in malaysia amid a third wave of covid-19 cases.
known as mco 3.
0, all economic sectors were allowed to operate during the period but cross-district and interstate travel as well as social, sports and educational activities were prohibited.
stricter restrictions on the economic and social sectors were later announced on may 21 as community cases continued to rise.
the emergence of new variants have also delayed efforts to flatten the infection curve, the prime minister's office had said.
on may 28, prime minister muhyiddin yassin announced that the country would go intototal lockdownfor 14 days beginning jun 1, with only essential economic and service sectors allowed to carry on with their operations.
case number breached the 9,000-mark on may 29, before the lockdown measures brought daily infections down gradually.
on friday, a total of 6,846 cases were reported.
if the first phase of total lockdown could reduce the number of daily cases, then the country would ease into a four-week second phase, where more economic sectors would be allowed to reopen.
phase 3 would be similar to the movement control order (mco) that has been enforced in the country, where nearly all economic sectors are allowed to operate with strict sops.
the progression from one phase to another would be subject to the ministry of health's risk assessments.
as of friday, malaysia's national covid-19 tally stood at 646,411. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: owners of gyms and fitness studios have welcomed news that indoor mask-off activities will be allowed to resume on jun 21, describing it as a relief after weeks of tightened curbs.
the easing of restrictions was announced on thursday (jun 10) as part of singapore's plans to enterphase 3 (heightened alert)after a fall in the number of covid-19 community cases.
this will take place in two phases: social gathering group sizes will be increased from jun 14; and if the situation remains under control, other restrictions such as the resumption of dining-in and other higher-risk mask-off activities will be allowed a week later on jun 21. mr shane parsons, the co-owner of fitness studio f45 lower peirce reservoir, said the news was a pleasant surprise as he had been "prepared for the worst".
"we were all feeling kind of lost every time these lockdown restrictions happened.
so .
.
.
at least we feel we're moving in a positive direction again.
"by jun 21, it'll be over six weeks with nearly zero revenue – that's been tough .
.
.
ultimately, we can see the light at the end of the tunnel," said mr parsons.
under current tightened measures forphase two (heightened alert), from may 16 to jun 13, only low-intensity physical activities are allowed at gyms and fitness studios – with masks on at all times.
that means studios focusing on high-intensity workouts, such as mr parson's, have been unable to operate as per normal.
the same goes for ritual, a gym chain with four locations in singapore, which has been operating at 20 per cent of its usual capacity, said its ceo, mr brad robinson.
"for us to be able to edge closer back to our typical business model (of high-intensity workouts) and normalcy was obviously met with happiness across the board.
"mr saumik bera, the director of real yoga, added: "i felt like i could breathe (again), because this phase 2 was like a coma to me, and all of us.
"new measures in placewhen indoor mask-off sports activities resume, participants will need to be at least 2m apart from each other.
indoor and outdoor sports classes can also be held in multiple groups of five – with a cap of 30 people, including the instructor.
the groups have to be at least 3m apart.
businesses cna spoke to said they are prepared for this, as similar social distancing rules were introduced when singapore entered phase 2 last year.
come jun 21, employees of such places will also have to be regularly tested for covid-19, due to the higher-risk settings.
like other fitness studio owners, real yoga's mr bera agreed with the need for this: "we see quite a number of people every day and don't know who carries what kinds of viruses, so i'm supportive of this that the frontliners should be responsible to protect society.
"the government will cover the cost of these tests for the next three months.
beyond that, employers will have to "start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their business continuity plans", said finance minister lawrence wong on thursday at a press conference by the multi-ministry task force on covid-19.
these costs,  on top of capacity constraints, will have an impact on business, said f45 lower peirce reservoir's mr parsons.
but he added that the studio will do "whatever it takes to keep moving forward".
ritual's mr robinson also said: "we're all for anything that allows our business to get back to pre-pandemic revenue, or as close to it as possible.
"our cost base has gone up and revenue has gone down so that's obviously a double whammy.
but again .
.
.
you adapt to just survive and move ahead.
"he added that details of the testing regime, including costs, have yet to be revealed.
ms yang jiamin, the founder of jyan yoga, suggested that the subsidies should be extended.
"three months is definitely not enough, considering covid has been around for a year already and we don't know when it's going to go away, or how this is going to be the new norm for us.
"to be more reasonable, probably about six months to a year (of subsidies) would be good.
"another suggestion from mr parson: "if gyms and fitness studios are really considered higher-risk settings, then workers should be prioritised for early vaccination.
"adapting to phase 3 (heightened alert)fitness studios are gearing up to welcome more members, but they do not expect business to bounce back immediately.
real yoga's mr bera said he anticipates that "many will still be afraid to come out of the house".
so while there will be more in-person classes, online classes will be kept as a staple.
jyan yoga's ms yang is also working on ways to bring members back.
"we are adding new classes to our curriculum to entice people to come down to the studio," she said, adding that they are also working on new merchandise that will compliment these in-person classes.
ritual and f45 lower peirce reservoir are also only expecting a gradual return of customers.
still, an in-person experience is key because it helps cultivate a sense of community – part of the appeal of gyms and fitness studios, said f45's mr parsons.
"after 3m distancing, masks on, and no shared equipment .
.
.
we can't wait for a day in the future when all of this behind us and our members are giving high-fives after class, freely going off and have dinner and drinks after".
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                kuala lumpur (bernama): the government is expected to cover fuel and cooking oil subsidies up to rm8bil, which is rm4.
22bil more than the initial rm3.
78bil allocated for this year.
the government has spent rm6.
32bil on fuel and cooking oil subsidies in 2019 and rm2.
16bil for 2020. finance minister tengku datuk seri zafrul abdul aziz said the higher allocation this year was due to the increase in current global market prices.
following the increase in commodity prices globally, government subsidies for ron95 petroleum products, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas (lpg) as well as subsidised cooking oil are expected to increase sharply.
"the government is prepared to bear the higher subsidy expenditure to preserve the well-being of the people and the viability of businesses, especially small traders," the finance ministry said in a statement on saturday (june 12).
tengku zafrul said the government would continue to help the people through various measures, including continuing to subsidise fuel and cooking oil to help reduce the impact of rising commodity prices globally on the people's cost of living.
he said the government would continue with the price maintenance policy of rm2.
05 per litre for ron95 petrol and rm2.
15 per litre for diesel which had been maintained since feb 10. meanwhile, the price of lpg was maintained at rm1.
90 per kg since june 2015 and subsidised cooking oil was worth rm2.
50 per one kg pack since 1997, he said.
he added that various budget 2021 measures and improved initiatives through permai, pemerkasa and pemerkasa plus will continue to be channelled at least until december 2021. bernama
tags / keywords:
subsidies
                                                                ,
                                                                                                fuel
                                                                ,
                                                                                                cooking oil
                                                                ,
                                                                                                finance ministry
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tengku zafrul abdul aziz
                                                                ,
                                                                                                lpg



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
advertisementby marc santoramore than two centuries after his ancestor was cast out of cornwall for stealing and sent to australia with hundreds of other convicts, scott morrison returned to the area on friday as prime minister of australia.
"it's a long time since one of my family was in cornwall," mr.  morrison said in a speech in perth on wednesday before traveling to meet with other world leaders at the group of 7 conference.
while the issues of the day were at the center of his agenda as an invited guest at the summit, it was also an unusual homecoming of sorts.
the main location of the gathering, carbis bay, is about 60 miles from the market in launceston where his ancestor, william roberts, stole "five pound and a half-weight of yarn" in 1786, according to the australian associated press.
mr.  morrison said mr.  roberts was his "fifth great-grandfather.
""he stole some yarn in cornwall, and the rest is history," mr.  morrison said.
"more than 200 years of it, so it'll be interesting to be going back there.
"mr.  roberts was part of a group of over 1,400 people who set sail in 11 ships from portsmouth, england on may 13, 1787 — part of the infamous "first fleet" — transporting military leaders, sailors and convicts across the world.
"a wide variety of people made up this legendary 'first fleet,'" according to the national geographic society.
"military and government officials, along with their wives and children, led the group.
sailors, cooks, masons and other workers hoped to establish new lives in the new colony.
"the first fleet included more than 700 convicts — the start of what would be more than 80 years of britain's shipping off convicts to serve out their sentences in new south wales, now a state in southeastern australia.
britain sent more than 160,000 convicts to australia in that time, and it is estimated that about 20 percent of present-day australians can trace their ancestry to them.
mr.  morrison is not the first australian leader to trace his roots back to a convict.
genealogists traced former prime minister kevin rudd's family line to an english woman who barely escaped the hangman's noose.
in 1788, mary wade — mr.  rudd's paternal fifth-great-grandmother — was convicted at the old bailey in london of having robbed an 8-year-old girl of her dress and underwear in a bathroom.
ms.  wade is said to have declared at her trial: "i was in a good mind to have chucked her down" the toilet.
"i wish i had done so.
"she was sentenced "to be hanged by the neck til she be dead," but her sentence was commuted and she was shipped off to australia.
advertisement
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a 45-year-old woman who is employed by hong ye group as a cleaner at ion orchard is one of five unlinked cases among the nine new covid-19 community infections reported on saturday (june 12).
the chinese national was asymptomatic, and her infection was detected when she went for a covid-19 test directed by her employer on friday.
her test result came back positive on the same day.
her serology test result is pending.
while she is currently not linked to existing clusters, other cleaners from hong ye group have been linked to earlier covid-19 cases at changi business park.
ion orchard has been closed since saturday for cleaning and disinfection after a number of cases were linked to the mall.
it will reopen at 7am on wednesday.
the ministry of health on saturday also revised its community case count from 12 to nine, as three cases were verified negative after further tests were done.
another unlinked case is an 18-year-old student at sim global education.
she was last in school on may 24.  she developed a runny nose and fever on thursday and sought medical treatment at a general practitioner (gp) clinic the next day, when she underwent both an antigen rapid test (art) and a polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
she was immediately isolated when her art result came back positive.
her pcr test result also came back positive on friday.
her serology test result is pending.
a 68-year-old singaporean man who had completed both vaccine doses is also among the unlinked cases.
he works as a landscape gardener at a firm called amozonia landscape and developed a runny nose and cough on tuesday.
he sought medical treatment at a gp clinic on friday.
he went for an art and a pcr test both came back positive.
his serology test result is pending.
the two remaining unlinked cases are a 27-year-old maid from myanmar, and a 57-year-old malaysian man who works as a land rigger at jurong port.
he was asymptomatic and his infection was detected as part of the rostered routine testing regime.
one of the four linked cases an 82-year-old singaporean woman was detected through surveillance.
she regularly helps out at a sundry store at 115 bukit merah view market and hawker centre.
there were also nine imported cases.
six of them are singaporeans and the remaining three are permanent residents.
there were no new cases in workers' dormitories.
the 18 new cases reported take singapore's total covid-19 tally to 62,263. there are 125 cases in hospital, with one in the intensive care unit.
another 266 cases are being isolated and cared for at community facilities.
there have been 34 deaths in singapore from covid-19 complications, while 15 who tested positive died of other causes.
read the full moh press release here.
correction note: this story has been edited for clarity.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new coronavirus infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said yesterday that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said.
he did not say which period of time the average daily figure of 6,871 was based on.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel and social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire after next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded in total.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases yesterday, the highest this week, bringing the total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deemed that the curbs were successful in reducing infection numbers.
the ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow, with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed to reopen.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing to something similar to last month's mco, in which most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols were allowed, while social activities remained banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 receiving jabs on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
malaysia yesterday started to deploy four mobile vaccine trucks to inoculate some 7,200 residents of public housing projects in kuala lumpur, as the country races to speed up its vaccination drive.
the three-day programme, which will run until tomorrow, involves four areas in the kuala lumpur federal territory.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
by yew lun tianbeijing (reuters) china passed a wide-ranging law to counter foreign sanctions on thursday, in an apparent move to legalise its tit-for-tat retaliation against punitive actions taken by foreign countries over issues from human rights to hong kong.
the law, effective immediately, builds upon previous administrative counter-measures against foreign sanctions issued by the chinese foreign and commerce ministries.
it also lays out the scope of china's counter-sanctions.
who's the target?individuals or entities involved in the making or implementation of discriminatory measures against chinese citizens, or interfering with china's internal affairs could be put onto a blacklist, according to the full text of the law published on thursday.
blacklisted individuals could find their relatives, and the organisations of which they are senior managers or have control over placed on the list.
"relevant departments" in the chinese government can decide who to put on or remove from the blacklist.
what happens to those blacklisted?those blacklisted could be denied entry into china or deported from china.
their assets within china can be sealed, seized or frozen.
entities within china could be restricted from engaging in all forms of transactions or cooperation or other activities, potentially limiting the investment activities of blacklisted entities in china.
chinese citizens or organisations can sue in chinese courts those who enforce foreign measures that discriminate against them.
how is this different from the past?while the foreign ministry has previously announced sanctions mainly against individuals including western politicians and scholars, it had not cited a specific law as the legal basis.
it was also not always clear what those sanctions entailed.
although the commerce ministry has announced mechanisms targeted at foreign entities such as a so-called "unreliable entity list", there have been no known instances of companies being put on the list.
the new law combines many features of these administrative orders by the foreign and commerce ministries, such as allowing chinese companies to sue for compensation and denying entry to blacklisted persons.
beijing analysts say the new law makes china's sanctions appear less random, as it spells out who can be blacklisted and what the sanctions would entail.
what do supporters say?state media and experts in china said the new law was a long overdue "legal weapon" needed to deter the west from interfering in china's internal affairs.
all 14 vice-chairpersons of china's legislature who passed the law have been under u. s.  sanctions for passing the national security law last year that critics say has crippled political freedoms in hong kong.
in other measures, the united states issued a ban on cotton and tomato imports from china's western xinjiang region in january, citing human rights violations and the use of forced labour in the region.
wang jiangyu, a law professor at city university of hong kong, said the european union has a law the "blocking statute" to counter u. s.  sanctions, so china should not be faulted for having a similar law.
"the new law is the stick part of the carrot and stick diplomacy.
but it is defensive in nature, not offensive, and will only be used when other countries apply sanctions on us first," said cheng xiaohe, an associate professor of international studies at the renmin university of china.
what do critics say?foreign companies increasingly fear they will be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess, said joerg wuttke, president of european union chamber of commerce.
chinese experts say the law could dampen the climate for foreign investment, but that the chinese government would have calculated this is a price worth paying to safeguard the country's interests.
(reporting by yew lun tian; editing by frances kerry)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"prøv niro plug-in hybrid og kom med på den elektriske bølge.
kør på strøm til hverdag og hybrid, når du skal langtwhat if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
singapore: a door-to-door salesman who stole a woman's s$200 bikini that was left outside her flat to dry was fined s$1,000 on friday (jun 11).
joash kuan yao wei, 25, who has since quit his job, pleaded guilty to one count of theft.
a second charge of possessing six bras and seven tank tops suspected to be stolen was taken into consideration.
the court heard that kuan was going door to door at an hdb block in pasir ris carrying out sales promotions at about 7pm on oct 22, 2020. he went to the victim's home on the second floor and rang the doorbell several times.
while doing so, he saw a bikini hanging on a bamboo pole outside the flat and formed the intention to steal it, said the prosecutor.
as there was no response from the unit, kuan took the black bikini and left.
however, the victim, a 41-year-old woman, saw him take the bikini through the peephole of her door.
she opened the door and shouted at him to stop, the court heard.
kuan stopped but threw the bikini at a nearby staircase before returning to the victim's flat.
the victim later found her bikini and called the police.
he was arrested and other stolen items were found in his ang mo kio flat, including six bras and several tank tops.
the prosecutor asked for a fine and said kuan has no previous convictions.
when the judge asked kuan why he stole those things, he replied: "uh, why did i steal?
i stole because got the urge to.
""are you seeing any professional for help with regard to your urge to steal this?"
asked the judge.
kuan said he was not, but intends to.
he added that he has quit his sales job and is currently doing odd jobs.
he could have been jailed up to three years and fined for theft.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur malaysia on friday extended a national lockdown imposed to curb a surge in coronavirus infections for two more weeks, with the latest restrictions to end on june 28, security minister ismail sabri yaakob said.
the lockdown, originally set to end on june 14, was announced as the southeast asian nation began reporting record levels of covid-19 infections and deaths last month.
malaysia on friday reported 6,849 new cases, bringing the total number of infections to 646,411, with 3,768 deaths overall.

                    friday, 11 jun 2021
                the man fled to malaysia through the woodlands checkpoint sometime in october 1999, with the help of a friend.
the straits times/annsingapore, june 11 (the straits times/ann): a man who was on the run from the law for 20 years was sentenced on friday to an additional six months in jail for misleading an immigration officer and for missing a court hearing in 2000. siva kumar ramachandram, 46, fled to malaysia after being convicted here of smuggling illegal immigrants out through the woodlands checkpoint, the corrupt practices investigation bureau (cpib) said on friday (june 11).
he had been sentenced to five years in jail and 12 strokes of the cane on sept 24, 1999. but siva fled the country sometime in october 1999, with the help of a friend known only as "boy".
at the woodlands checkpoint, siva, a malaysian, used an unidentified person's passport to cross into malaysia.
he was on court bail at the time, and missed his magistrate's appeal hearing on march 9, 2000, at the high court of singapore.
a warrant for his arrest was issued that day, said cpib.
he was arrested by the cpib on march 4, 2020, with the help of the malaysian anti-corruption commission.
on april 16, 2021, siva was charged with offences under the immigration act and penal code.
he will serve the six-month jail term after completing his initial five-year sentence.
siva was given the five-year sentence after he was found guilty of a conspiracy that involved bribing a cisco officer to allow buses to transport illegal immigrants from singapore into malaysia through the woodlands checkpoint.
the cisco officer was sentenced to one year in jail and fined $2, 800 in 1999. cpib said that singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach to corruption.
the straits times/ann 
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                malaysian man
                                                                ,
                                                                                                on the run
                                                                ,
                                                                                                0 years
                                                                ,
                                                                                                five years
                                                                ,
                                                                                                jail
                                                                ,
                                                                                                extra six months
                                                                ,
                                                                                                friday (june 11)
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sentenced



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
carbis bay (britain) • leaders of the group of seven rich nations yesterday adopted a rival plan to oppose china's belt and road initiative (bri) by helping build infrastructure in poorer nations in a "values-driven, high-standard and transparent" partnership.
the adoption of the united states-inspired "build back better world" (b3w) project came after us president joe biden and other g-7 leaders met to address "strategic competition with china and commit to concrete actions to help meet the tremendous infrastructure need in low-and middle-income countries", the white house said.
china has been widely criticised for saddling small countries with unmanageable debt as part of its trillion-dollar belt and road initiative, which has seen money lent for projects stretching across asia, africa, latin america and even europe.
president xi jinping launched the bri in 2013 to significantly expand china's economic and political influence, with many of the infrastructure plans seen as helping to deliver its goods globally.
china denies any ulterior motives in the vast investment project.
but critics argue it uses the financial leverage arising from the scheme to boost its clout, in what they dub "debt-trap diplomacy".
the white house said the g-7 initiative would be similarly global in scope, estimating that the developing world needs more than us$40 trillion (s$53 trillion) in infrastructure, a gap "which has been exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic".
"b3w will collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment for low-and middle-income countries in the coming years," it said.
funding will emphasise the environment and climate, labour safeguards, transparency and anti-corruption, it added, in implicit contrast with china's opaque funding.
further details would come in the g-7 summit's final communique today, the white house added.
the rival plan comes after the us and china clashed in rare talks on friday, with mr biden's administration pressing beijing on covid-19, taiwan and human rights.
in a telephone call with china's top diplomat yang jiechi, us secretary of state antony blinken renewed us pressure on china over the origins of the pandemic that has killed more than 3.
7 million people.
he "stressed the importance of cooperation and transparency regarding the origin of the virus", including allowing world health organisation experts back into china, state department spokesman ned price said in a statement.
mr biden has ordered us intelligence to report back by late august on whether the sars-cov-2 virus that causes covid-19, which was first detected in late 2019 in the chinese city of wuhan, emerged from an animal source or a laboratory accident.
b3w will collectively catalyse hundreds of billions of dollars of infrastructure investment for low-and middle-income countries in the coming years.
mr yang told mr blinken that the laboratory theory was "absurd", according to the state-run china global television network.
"we urge the us side to respect facts and science, not to politicise the origin tracing and to focus its attention on international cooperation on the fight against the pandemic," mr yang said.
according to china central television, mr yang told mr blinken: "genuine multilateralism is not pseudo-multilateralism based on the interests of small circles.
"the leaders of g-7 nations britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the us are largely focused on "building back better" after covid-19 wrecked economies and claimed millions of lives around the world.
they were set yesterday to outline a joint declaration aimed at preventing another pandemic, as part of their wide-ranging talks on the second day of the summit in britain.
the leaders are also set to issue new commitments on climate change, including financial aid for the developing world.
the agenda broadened yesterday to foreign policy issues, as they were joined by the leaders of australia, south africa and south korea, with india taking part remotely.
mr biden was expected to seek to address frayed relations with moscow, in particular over its cyber activity.
agence france-pressejoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
carbis bay, britain (afp) leaders of the group of seven (g-7) rich nations were set on saturday (june 12) to agree on a joint declaration aimed at preventing another pandemic, as they resume wide-ranging talks at their first in-person summit in almost two years.
the "carbis bay declaration" – named after the seaside town in cornwall, south-west england, where united states president joe biden and other leaders are meeting this weekend – comprises a series of health policy commitments.
the collective steps include slashing the time taken to develop and license vaccines, treatments and diagnostics for any future disease to under 100 days, while reinforcing global surveillance networks.
it will be formally published on sunday (june 13), alongside the g-7's final communique.
"the #carbisbaydeclaration marks a proud and historic moment for us all," british prime minister boris johnson said on twitter, as he chaired the second day of the three-day summit.
"under this agreement, the world's leading democracies will commit to preventing a global pandemic from ever happening again, ensuring the devastation caused by covid-19 is never repeated," he said.
world health organisation chief tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, criticised in some quarters for being too accommodating towards china where the coronavirus was first detected, welcomed the health pact.
he also said the united nations agency would examine a british proposal to create a "global pandemic radar" to send early warnings of future outbreaks.
"the world needs a stronger global surveillance system to detect new epidemic and pandemic risks," dr tedros said.
however, aid charity oxfam said the declaration "does nothing to address the fundamental problems that are preventing vaccines being accessible to the vast majority of humanity".
the g-7 is meeting face-to-face for the first time since 2019 in cornwall.
photo: nytimes
the g-7 – britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the united states – are largely focussed on "building back better" after covid-19 wrecked economies and claimed millions of lives around the world.
they are expected to pledge to donate one billion vaccine doses to poor countries this year and next – although campaigners say the rollout is much too slow to end the crisis sooner.
the leaders are also set to issue new commitments on climate change, including financial aid for the developing world, in the buildup to the un's cop26 environmental summit in scotland in november.
britain's queen elizabeth ii with g-7 leaders during an evening reception at the eden project on june 11, 2021.  photo: reuters
the agenda broadened on saturday to foreign policy issues, as the g-7 was joined by the leaders of australia, south africa and south korea, with india taking part remotely.
president biden is expected to press allies to bolster cooperation in dealing with a resurgent china, from offering an alternative to its trillion-dollar "belt and road" infrastructure initiative to confronting its alleged forced labour practices including against the muslim uighur minority in xinjiang region.
"this is not just about confronting or taking on china," a senior white house official said.
"this is about providing an affirmative, positive alternative vision for the world.
"he said mr biden would be urging "concrete action" on the forced labour accusations, calling them "an affront to human dignity, and an egregious example of china's unfair economic competition".
china denies allegations that it is waging "genocide" by forcing uighurs and people from other ethnic-turkic minorities into internment camps in xinjiang.
the us president will also seek to address frayed relations with moscow, in particular over its cyber activity.
most of the g-7 leaders will reconvene on monday in brussels for a nato meeting, before mr biden heads on to his first summit with russian president vladimir putin in geneva, vowing to deliver a blunt message about russian behaviour.
in a rare interview with us media released on friday, mr putin voiced hope that mr biden would be less impetuous than former us president donald trump, who infamously sided with the russian leader against the views of his own intelligence chiefs.
"it is my great hope that, yes, there are some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements on behalf of the sitting us president," mr putin told nbc news.
closer to home for the g-7 hosts, mr johnson came under concerted pressure in separate meetings with the leaders of france, germany and the european union to respect his brexit commitments over northern ireland.
"the prime minister expressed confidence in the uk's position in the northern ireland protocol," a defiant downing street responded, referring to special brexit arrangements for the restive province.
"he made clear his desire for pragmatism and compromise on all sides but underlined that protecting the belfast good friday (peace) agreement in all its dimensions was paramount.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
new delhi: india on saturday (jun 12) reported 84,332 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 case load now stands at 29.
4 million, while total fatalities are at 367,081, data.
india added 4,002 deaths overnight.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, but the discovery ofseveral thousand unreported deaths in the state of biharhas raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
six cases, four involving men aged between 18 to 30 years old, have been reported in singapore.
singapore: there may be a "very small risk" of heart inflammation after the second dose of an mrna covid-19 vaccine, said the government-appointed expert committee on covid-19 vaccination in singapore.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), the committee said it is closely monitoring international reports that the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccines may be associated with a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men.
myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions that affect the heart muscles and the outer lining of the heart respectively.
increased occurrences of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccinations have been observed in israel and the united states, and in adolescents and young men younger than 25 years.
singapore uses the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines for its national vaccination programme.
both are mrna-based vaccines.
in a separate update, the health sciences authority (hsa) said israel, which uses the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine, recently announced that there may be a probable link between the second dose and the onset of myocarditis in men aged between 16 and 30 years old in its population.
the link was found stronger among the younger age group of 16 to 19 years old.
while no other country has highlighted a similar causal link to date, the us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) has reported that it has observed more cases of myocarditis and pericarditis in male patients aged between 16 and 24 years old.
"nonetheless, they have stressed that investigations are ongoing, and they have not made any conclusion about a causal link," said hsa.
most cases are "mild", six such reports received by hsamyocarditis and pericarditis occur more often in men compared to women.
symptoms include chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
most cases are mild and patients recover without the need for significant intervention, nor do they suffer from any long-term effects.
the expert committee added that very rarely, severe cases may result in damage to the heart muscles.
the two conditions are separate and distinct from heart attacks, which are caused when the blood flow to the heart is blocked.
in singapore, hsa said it has received six such reports as of jun 7.  two of the cases involved a man and a woman older than 40 years old.
the other four cases involved men aged between 18 and 30 years old.
"(the four cases) are at the upper end of the expected range for this age group, based on background incidence rates," said hsa.
most of the cases were reported to have occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine.
all have recovered or have been discharged well from the hospital.
although the local numbers are small, the pattern of occurrence after the second covid-19 vaccine and in young men is consistent with what has been observed in the us and israel, which are the two major users of the mrna vaccines, said hsa.
those who developed myocarditis and pericarditis responded well to treatment and recovered, added hsa.
"overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna covid-19 vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic," it added.
the authority has also informed the ministry of health (moh) and the expert committee of its assessment.
"we will also continue to monitor this closely and take the relevant and necessary regulatory actions," said hsa.
the committee said it has reviewed the available international and local data.
"our assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mrna covid-19 vaccines, i. e. , reduction in covid-19 infections and severe complications even if infected, continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination.
"avoid strenuous activity one week after second dose of vaccineas further studies and investigations are ongoing, the currently available data suggests that there may be a "very small risk" of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of an mrna vaccine, particularly in young men, said the expert committeeas a precaution, the committee recommended that those vaccinated, particularly adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
they should also seek medical attention promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
"covid-19 continues to be a health threat globally and in singapore.
"the emergence of infectious variants can lead to widespread community covid-19 transmission as well as the risk of severe covid-19 disease and complications, including long term chronic complications," said the committee.
it that the benefits of mrna covid-19 vaccination continue to outweigh the known and potential risks.
hsa and moh will also continue to monitor the safety profile of the covid-19 vaccines closely and update members of the public of any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
jerusalem (afp) israeli lawmakers are to vote on sunday (june 13) on a change to the coalition government of bitter ideological rivals united by their determination to banish prime minister benjamin netanyahu from power.
the crunch knesset vote will either terminate the hawkish premier's uninterrupted 12-year tenure or return israel to a stalemate likely to trigger a fifth general election since 2019. mr netanyahu, who is battling a clutch of corruption charges in an ongoing trial he dismisses as a conspiracy, has pushed israeli politics firmly to the right over the years.
on saturday night, around 2,000 protesters rallied outside the 71-year-old's official residence to celebrate what they believe will be his departure from office.
"for us, this is a big night and tomorrow will be even a bigger day.
i am almost crying.
we fought peacefully for this (mr netanyahu's departure) and the day has come," said protester ofir robinski.
a fragile eight-party alliance, ranging from the right-wing jewish nationalist yamina party to arab lawmakers, was early this month cobbled together by centrist politician yair lapid.
last friday, all coalition agreements had been signed and submitted to the knesset secretariat, the yamina party announced, a moment that party leader naftali bennett said brought "to an end two and a half years of political crisis".
but the ever-combative mr netanyahu has tried to peel off defectors that would deprive the nascent coalition of its wafer-thin legislative majority.
if the new government is confirmed, mr bennett, a former defence minister, would serve as premier for two years.
coalition architect mr lapid, who heads the yesh atid party and is a former television presenter, would then take the helm.
the anti-netanyahu bloc spans the political spectrum, including three right-wing, two centrist and two left-wing parties, along with an arab islamic conservative party.
the improbable alliance emerged two weeks after an 11-day war between israel and hamas, the islamist group that rules the palestinian enclave of gaza and following inter-communal violence in israeli cities with significant arab populations.
"we will work together, out of partnership and national responsibility and i believe we will succeed," mr bennett said last friday.
sunday's crucial knesset session is due to open at 4pm local time (9pm singapore time), with mr bennett, mr lapid and mr netanyahu all set to speak before the vote.
mr netanyahu has heaped pressure on his former right-wing allies to defect from the fledgling coalition while attacking the legitimacy of the bennett-lapid partnership.
he has accused mr bennett of "fraud" for siding with rivals and angry rallies by the premier's likud party supporters have resulted in security being bolstered for some lawmakers.
mr netanyahu's bombastic remarks as he sees his grip on power slip have drawn parallels at home and abroad to former united states president donald trump, who described his election loss last year as the result of a rigged vote.
the prime minister has called the prospective coalition "the greatest election fraud in the history" of israel.
his likud party said the accusations refer to mr bennett entering a coalition that "doesn't reflect the will of the voters".
sunday's vote arrives hot on the heels of police crackdowns on palestinian protests over the threatened eviction of families from homes in israeli-annexed east jerusalem to make way for jewish settlers, a month after similar clashes fuelled the latest war between israel and hamas.
it also comes amid right-wing anger over the postponement of a controversial jewish nationalist march.
mr netanyahu favoured finding a way to allow the so-called "march of the flags", originally scheduled to take place last thursday, to proceed as planned.
he took that position despite the original route envisaging the march unfolding close to flashpoint areas including the al-aqsa mosque compound, where clashes last month triggered the gaza conflict.
the premier's insistence saw his opponents accuse him and his allies of stoking tensions to cling onto power via a "scorched earth" campaign.
if mr netanyahu loses the premiership, he will not be able to push through changes to basic laws that could give him immunity in regard to his corruption trial.
the controversial flag march is now slated for tuesday and ongoing tensions surrounding it could represent a key initial test for any approved coalition.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a man who was on the run from the law for 20 years was sentenced on friday (june 11) to an additional six months in jail for misleading an immigration officer and for missing a court hearing in 2000. siva kumar ramachandram, 46, fled to malaysia after being convicted here of smuggling illegal immigrants out through the woodlands checkpoint, the corrupt practices investigation bureau (cpib) said on friday.
he had been sentenced to five years in jail and 12 strokes of the cane on sept 24, 1999. but siva fled the country sometime in october 1999, with the help of a friend known only as "boy".
at the woodlands checkpoint, siva, a malaysian, used an unidentified person's passport to cross into malaysia.
he was on court bail at the time, and missed his magistrate's appeal hearing on march 9, 2000, at the high court of singapore.
a warrant for his arrest was issued that day, said cpib.
he was arrested by the cpib on march 4, 2020, with the help of the malaysian anti-corruption commission.
on april 16, 2021, siva was charged with offences under the immigration act and penal code.
he will serve the six-month jail term after completing his initial five-year sentence.
siva was given the five-year sentence after he was found guilty of a conspiracy that involved bribing a cisco officer to allow buses to transport illegal immigrants from singapore into malaysia through the woodlands checkpoint.
the cisco officer was sentenced to one year in jail and fined $2,800 in 1999. cpib said that singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach to corruption.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore at least 700 people who had visited ion orchard in the past two weeks turned up to get tested for covid-19 at two medical centres on saturday (june 12).
about 600 people were tested at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city, while about 100 went to raffles medical centre in shaw centre.
a fullerton health spokesman said: "today was slightly busier than usual, but was well within our testing centre's capacity, and we were able to accommodate smoothly.
"long lines formed outside and inside shaw centre as people waited for their turn to get swabbed at raffles medical centre from 8.
30am.
on friday, the ministry of health reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion orchard had tested positive for covid-19.
she is the third worker at ion orchard to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall and offer testing to mall visitors and staff.
most of the people in the line said they were getting tested just to be safe.
others, like housewife madam aparna, 71, said she and her husband wanted to get tested for the safety of the people around them.
"we are doing it more for the others," she said.
the couple had visited the daiso outlet in ion on tuesday for about 30 minutes.
madam aparna added that they have both been fully vaccinated and feel safe.
ms margie ceitom, 39, a maid who was at shaw centre with her employer, said she did not have any symptoms, but since she and her employer had visited ion on may 27, the two of them decided to get tested.
another man in the line, who wanted to be known only as mr ng, 51, said he could not remember when he visited ion but had received a message from the tracetogether app a few days ago.
he said: "the message said i may have been possibly exposed to a covid-19 case.
"mr ng, who is a manager, added that he did not feel nervous.
he said that the decision to get tested was to be responsible and to make sure he was safe.
people queueing to get tested for covid-19 at fullerton health testing centre in raffles city on june 12, 2021.  st photo: alphonsus chern

a queue outside the testing centre at raffles medical centre at shaw centre on june 12, 2021.  st photo: jason quah
mr james quan, 53, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, said the level 8 carpark at ion is being used as a testing site for the mall's staff.
in a letter to tenants dated june 11 and seen by the straits times, all store staff were told to register for a swab test before 12pm on saturday using an online link.
in the letter, ion reminded store staff to be punctual for their appointed slot to avoid crowding.
mr quan, who works from home, said his shop staff will be tested from 4pm on saturday.
he added that this is the weekend before father's day, which falls on june 20, and stores may have been anticipating more sales because shoppers would have planned to buy gifts.
mr quan said he was not worried that his business would be affected, as he has three other outlets, including an online site.
his ion outlet is the smallest one.
he said: "one of my outlets is just next door, in takashimaya.
if i had only one store and no online site, it would have been a big blow to the business.
"attempts by st to enter the ion orchard carpark were unsuccessful.
a security guard at the entrance stopped a member of the media from going in.
people were still using the ion paterson link to get to other malls or to exit orchard mrt station.
ion orchard will be shut until 7am next wednesday (june 16).
st photo: jason quah

a closed ion orchard on june 12, 2021.  st photo: jason quah
at raffles city shopping centre, ms annie ang, who is in her late 50s, and her friend, mrs sharon ho, who is in her 60s were queuing up to get tested at fullerton health testing centre.
ms ang said: "we arrived here at about 2pm and it was very fast.
i took only 20 minutes to complete everything.
"the women, both of whom have received their covid-19 shots, live near ion orchard and went there to buy food on june 7. ion orchard will be shut for four days from 7am on saturday until 7am next wednesday for cleaning and disinfecting works after the moh confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to june 11 are being offered free covid-19 testing from saturday.
staff who worked at the mall from may 28 to june 11 will also be tested.
additional reporting by alphonsus chernjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
bts is a brand ambassador for louis vuitton.
they also have their own "bt21" characters, in conjunction with line friends.
recently, this k-pop group released their own meal at the fast-food chain, mcdonald's.
however, the "bts meal" is only available for purchase for a limited time.
they're smooth like "butter" and a partner of the fast-food chain mcdonald's.
recently, the k-pop group, bts, released their bts meal, which is currently available for purchase at the fast-food chain.
"bts truly lights up the world stage, uniting people across the globe through their music," said morgan flatley, chief marketing officer, mcdonald's usa said in a statement.
"we're excited to bring customers even closer to their beloved band in a way only mcdonald's can – through our delicious food – when we introduce the bts signature order on our menu next month.
"additionally, new bags, sandals, shirts, and everything in between will be dotted with hues of purple and added to the weverse app as a result of this mcdonald's partnership.
thanks to a fake phone call from jin, the bts x mcdonald's merchandise also includes photocards and is only available for a limited time.
related: is jungkook the last bts member to create a solo song?
here's what we know about 'still with you' and the mixtapes of these k-pop idolsthis meal includes chicken mcnuggets, medium fries, and a medium drink, which are available for purchase off of the regular mcdonald's menu.
what makes the bts meal special, in addition to bts-themed bags in select countries, are the two sauces picked by the bts members — sweet chili and cajun.
just like the travis scott and j balvin meal, the bts meal will not stay at mcdonald's locations for a long period of time.
originally released during may 2021, the bts meal will be available at mcdonald's in the united states through june 20, according to usa today.
it's unclear if the two sauces will remain at international mcdonald's locations following this meal.
additionally, the mcdonald's and bts merchandise collection is available for purchase through the weverse shop app, although it's unclear how long that will be listed for fans to splurge on.
related: jimin from bts finally puts the 'dumpling incident,' mentioned during 'the late late show with james corden,' to restaside from this partnership with mcdonald's, bts released collaborations with brands like samsung, the coca-cola company, and starbucks.
these artists also release official merchandise with the weverse app and in conjunction with line friends, featuring the bt21 characters.
the bts meal is now available for purchase at mcdonald's locations in the united states.
music by the k-pop group, including "butter," is available on most major streaming platforms.
an incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace is yet another reminder of beijing's belligerence, says this observernew south wales: earlier this month, 16 chinese military transport aircraft weresighted a little more than 100kmoff the coast of the east malaysian state of sarawak.
the royal malaysian air force called it "a serious threat to national sovereignty".
the ministry of foreign affairs summoned china's ambassador to malaysia to voice its displeasure over the incursion into malaysian airspace.
however, china's foreign ministry spokesperson dismissed malaysian concerns by claiming that the aircraft were there for "routine flight exercises".
malaysia is not alone in being wary of chinese intentions in the region.
china's infamous "nine-dash line" around the south china sea and unilateral claims to as much as 80 per cent of the disputed waters, along with the construction of artificial islands, has caused much consternation.
regular incursions by chinese fishing trawlers have occurred in indonesian, vietnamese and filipino waters, and the belligerence displayed by chinese naval vessels and aircraft has further fuelled suspicions.
southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
the incursion by chinese aircraft into malaysian airspace comes barely two months after a controversial remark by the malaysian foreign affairs minister hishammuddin hussein during a visit to fujian province in southern china on apr 1. hishammuddin told his chinese counterpart wang yi that "you will always be my elder brother".
prominent malaysian opposition leader anwar ibrahim lamented that "this is not the language and style that should be used in the diplomatic world and international relations, as it seemingly implies malaysia is a puppet to a foreign power".
anwar urged hishammuddin to retract his comment and apologise to malaysians.
hishammuddin later clarified that his remark was meant to show his respect to wang, who is an older person and a very senior diplomat.
china as a superpowerhishammudin should have been more cautious with his language.
his remarks offer a further warning of the potential cost to southeast asian leaders of being seen to defer to china's sphere of influence.
beijing has calculated that as china gained stature as a superpower southeast asian nations would not, and could not, challenge its economic and military might.
this was underscored after president xi jinping announced in 2015 that china had no intention of militarising the south china sea, only to then proceeded to build more artificial islands and install missiles and erect buildings and military bases on those islands.
the risk for hishammudin was to again reinforce this lesson.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
southeast asian countries, including malaysia, recognise that none of them has the capability to match china's military might.
and the region does indeed have deep ties with china economically, which beijing is eager to grow.
construction of a high-speed railway service linking kunming in yunnan province with singapore as part of the belt and road initiative (bri) remains a top priority for china.
however, southeast asian leaders must balance economic realities with defending territorial sovereignty and national pride.
china has been actively cultivating malaysia through the funding and construction of massive infrastructure projects.
in 2016, the east coast rail link (ecrl) costing 65.
5 billion ringgit (us$15.
8 billion) was launched to link kuantan on the eastern coast with ports in the western coast.
the melaka gateway, a us$10.
5 billion commercial and property development project, was awarded to a malaysian company that included three chinese commercial partners.
three pipelines were also awarded to chinese companies at a cost of us$4.
1 billion.
tight economic tiesmalaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
yet after the ruling barisan nasional was voted out of office in 2018, the incoming prime minister mahathir mohamed proceeded to review these projects.
in a visit to beijing in august 2018, he warned about the "new version of colonialism" where rich countries preyed on poorer ones in what was taken to be a swipe to china.
the three planned pipelines were scrapped a month later.
mahathir renegotiated terms for the ecrl and reduced the cost to 44 billion ringgit in 2019. with the collapse of the mahathir government in february 2020, prime minister muhyiddin yassin proceeded to mend ties with china.
in april this year, it was announced that the renegotiated ecrl would cost 50 billion ringgit.
however, the malacca state government cancelled the melaka gateway project in november 2020 on the basis that there had been "no development".
malaysia's experience in an example of how china influence is conditioning behaviour in southeast asia.
in 2019, nikkei asia reported that the 10-member association of southeast asian nations had overtaken the united states as the second-largest trading partner for china.
chinese investments also flow into southeast asia, largely through the bri, the global times reporting in november 2020 that china's investment in southeast asia was more than 76 per cent of the total investment in countries and regions linked with the bri.
but none of this should be cause for southeast asian leaders to surrender sovereign interests to a bully in beijing.
malaysia was right to be disappointed at china's action to send military planes close to its borders.
malaysia should take a lesson of its own, that china has a "new version of colonialism".
responding collectively as a region should be the priority.
jason lim is senior lecturer in asian history at the university of wollongong and the international history review editor of the asian studies review.
this commentaryfirst appearedin the lowy institute's blog the interpreter.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a four-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his three-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan, who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000), is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020, was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have three- or four-room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a two-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his four-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two food and beverage establishments have been ordered to close after breaching safe management measures.
steamov steamboat buffet restaurant in beach road will be closed for 30 days and the starz bistro in east coast road for 10 days, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment (mse) on friday (june 11).
meanwhile, 77 people have been fined for breaching safe management measures (smms) in parks under tightened covid-19 rules that came into effect on may 16.  the curbs will gradually ease starting on june 14. two retail outlets giant supermarket at bedok shopping complex and cold storage supermarket at condominium siglap v near east coast road have been fined $1,000 each for not having staff to oversee their safe entry checkpoints.
with dining in slated to resume from june 21, government agencies will step up enforcement at f&b establishments and take firm action against any breaches of covid-19 rules, said the mse.
such breaches include the failure to maintain a 1m safe distance between groups and to prevent them from intermingling, allowing group sizes larger than five people, serving and allowing the consumption of alcohol after 10.
30pm, and providing live entertainment and games.
"enforcement actions will include fines, closures even for first offence, and the revoking of food shop, public entertainment or liquor licences," said the ministry.
it reminded patrons and operators of f&b establishments to strictly adhere to safe management measures as these places are high-risk settings where coronavirus transmission has taken place in recent weeks.
mse also said the national parks board will continue to temporarily close access to some parks and sections of beaches, lawns and facilities such as hardcourts, shelters and carparks when these areas get too crowded or where people remain non-compliant with safe management measures.
nparks has advised  compliance with safe management measures on more than 6,000 instances to parkgoers who were not wearing masks, and on more than 800 occasions to people who had gathered in groups of more than two, added the ministry.
these were verbally given by enforcement officers.
the latest breach is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant's third offence.
it had allowed customers to dine there at 9.
30pm on may 28. the starz bistro had done so on may 22, and also allowed customers to consume alcohol after 10.
30pm that day.
mse said the closure orders for both eateries will take effect when dining in is allowed to resume.
it said that agencies have identified places where safe management measures are more frequently breached and have stepped up enforcement presence there.
these hot spots includes parks and common areas of housing board estates such as hardcourts, basketball courts and pavilions.
"where repeated breaches of smms have been observed, agencies will close off facilities to ensure the safety of the community," added the ministry.
for example, a pavilion at block 90 pipit road was cordoned off on may 31 after a group of more than 12 people were found gathering there for dance sessions on multiple occasions.
"we therefore urge members of the public to use these facilities responsibly," said mse.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
hong kong • the top us diplomat in hong kong said the imposition of a new national security law had created an "atmosphere of coercion" that threatens both the city's freedoms and its standing as an international business hub.
in unusually strident remarks to reuters this week, us consul-general hanscom smith called it "appalling" that beijing's influence had "vilified" routine diplomatic activities such as meeting local activists, part of a government crackdown on foreign forces that was "casting a pall over the city".
critics of the legislation say the law has crushed the city's democratic opposition, civil society and western-style freedoms.
the foreign forces issue is at the heart of the crimes of "collusion" with foreign countries or "external elements" detailed in article 29 of the security law, scholars say.
article 29 outlaws a range of direct or indirect links with a "foreign country or an institution, organisation or individual" outside greater china, covering offences from the stealing of secrets and waging war to engaging in "hostile activities" and "provoking hatred".
they can be punished by up to life in prison.
mr smith is a career us foreign service officer who has deep experience in china and the wider region, serving in shanghai, beijing and taiwan before arriving in hong kong in july 2019. he made his comments in an interview at the us diplomatic mission in hong kong on wednesday, after reuters sought the consulate's views on the impact of the national security law.
in a response to reuters, hong kong's security bureau said that "normal interactions and activities" were protected, and blamed external elements for interfering in the city during the protests that engulfed hong kong in 2019.
"there are indications in investigations and intelligence that foreign intervention was rampant, with money, supplies and other forms of support," a representative said.
he did not identify specific individuals or groups.
government adviser and former security chief regina ip told reuters it was only "china haters" who had reason to worry about falling foul of the law.
"there must be criminal intent, not just casual chat," she said.
fourteen asian and western diplomats who spoke to reuters for this story said they were alarmed at attempts by hong kong prosecutors to treat links between local politicians and foreign envoys as potential national security threats.
"it's appalling that people would take a routine interaction with a foreign government representative and attribute something sinister to it," mr smith said.
hong kong yesterday slammed a british government report that said beijing was using the security law to "drastically curtail freedoms" in the city.
the hong kong authorities also this week lambasted the european union for denouncing hong kong's recent overhaul of its political system.
although local officials said last year that the security law would affect only a "tiny minority" of people, more than 100 have been arrested under the law.
retired judges said they were shocked at the broad use of foreign connections by prosecutors.
one told reuters he did not see how that approach would be sustainable, as the government accredits diplomats, whose job is to meet people, including politicians.
hong kong's judiciary said it would not comment on individual cases.
reutersjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singaporeans studying in australian institutions are looking forward to a proposed travel bubble between the two countries, as they may finally be able to return to their campuses there or spend holidays with their families here.
prime minister lee hsien loong and his australian counterpart scott morrison said on thursday that the two countries are working towards an air travel bubble.
they hoped singapore students in australia, whose studies have been disrupted by the covid-19 travel restrictions, would be the first to get the opportunity to travel under the arrangement.
all six students the straits times spoke to on friday (june 11) expressed optimism about the travel bubble.
for first-year students like mr chris gan, who is doing his bachelor's degree in politics, philosophy and economics at the australian national university, it will be his first chance to set foot on its campus.
the 21-year-old said he was not too concerned that the travel bubble may be one-way.
"i am confident singaporeans will be able to travel to australia too.
"mr sun yuchen, 23, a third-year student at the university of melbourne who is currently on a year's leave of absence, is looking forward to returning to campus.
"i see a chance for me to return to australia to complete my studies and gain experience by using actual facilities the school provides," he said.
singaporeans who are currently in australia, such as university of new south wales student joseph tan, look forward to reuniting with family here.
the 23-year-old, who has been in australia since february last year, said he had been unable to return home, as his degree in aviation requires him to attend flying lessons there.
he added: "the travel bubble between singapore and australia comes as a relief to me as i have the opportunity to finally return home and see my family after being away for so long.
even if i can only return for a few days, it is comforting to return home again.
"students who returned to singapore when the covid-19 pandemic worsened said the past year had been tough for them.
psychology student audrey chan, 23, is a final-year student at the university of queensland.
she has been continuing her classes remotely since returning to singapore in march last year.
she said: "my singaporean and malaysian peers agree that we often feel like an outsider or a cctv spying on the class via zoom, and this makes class participation painfully awkward and hard for us.
some of us are stressed out, as we find it hard to keep up with the class, especially when technology fails us.
"university of adelaide student shalynn tsai, 21, who is doing her bachelor's degree in dental surgery, had to take leave of absence because she was unable to return to campus by mid-september last year.
"it has been very stressful not knowing when or whether we can even continue with our degree courses," she said.
"with the travel bubble, we can finally go back and resume our studies.
"while the students understand that they may need to undergo pre-departure and arrival tests for the coronavirus, they hoped they would not have to incur hefty charges and would not have to be quarantined if already vaccinated.
mr ryan soh, 21, will be commencing his communication studies at queensland university of technology later this month.
"i hope that there will be no need for a quarantine once vaccination has been done and the covid-19 test comes back negative.
kind of like what's going on between new zealand and australia," he said.
"nevertheless, if there is a need for quarantine, then hopefully it would be more accessible or cheaper for students, as some of us may not be able to afford it.
"mr tan felt the same.
"hopefully it will not be too expensive and there will not be a need to self-quarantine for too long once i arrive at either destination.
i understand the need for the covid-19 tests to ensure there are no imported cases and hope that both countries can maintain the safety of not only its residents but those travelling as well," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore twelve people are being investigated for their suspected involvement in illegal gambling activities and non-compliance with safe distancing measures after a police operation in bukit panjang.
officers from jurong police division conducted the operation at a residential unit in gangsa road on thursday (june 10) at about 9pm, the police said on friday.
they found seven men and five women, aged between 21 and 70, allegedly engaging in gambling-related activities there.
of the 12, a 55-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man were arrested for allegedly using the unit as a common gaming house.
three other women and another man, aged between 48 and 70, are being investigated for gaming in a common gaming house.
cash and gambling paraphernalia were seized as case exhibits, and police investigations are ongoing.
"the police take a serious view against all forms of illegal gambling activities and will continue to take tough enforcement action against those involved, in accordance with the law.
members of the public are advised not to engage in any form of illegal gambling and to comply with the prevailing safe distancing measures," the police said.
under the common gaming houses act, anyone found using a place as a common gaming house can be fined between $5,000 and $50,000, and jailed for up to three years.
anyone who games in a common gaming house can be fined up to $5,000, jailed for up to six months, or both.
those found guilty of not complying with safe distancing measures can be fined up to $10,000, jailed for up to six months, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: a new chinese law against foreign sanctions is designed to boost beijing's power against international pressure, but could spark compliance dilemmas for foreign businesses operating in the world's second-largest economy.
it comes just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest.
here is what we know about the law so far:what is it?the anti-foreign sanctions law was rushed into force on thursday (jun 10).
it aims to protect chinese individuals or organisations in the event that a country "uses various pretexts or its laws" to take "discriminatory" action against them.
no country is specifically named.
but beijing has accused western nations of "suppressing" china's development, especially the united states.
it has lashed out at "illegal and unreasonable" sanctions over human rights and flagged an urgent need to fight back.
what could it do?countermeasures listed in the law include denying visas, deportation, or seizing assets of those who formulate or comply with sanctions against chinese businesses or officials.
it rules that authorities are not only able to target individuals and groups but can also take aim at their family members.
the law is broad and "significantly increases the punitive power of china's anti-sanctions measures", said university of hong kong associate professor angela zhang.
"the broad scope of this framework means that lots of folks, like scholars, pundits, think tanks, could be sanctioned for supporting sanctions on china," warned julian ku, an expert on international law at hofstra university.
how could it impact business?senior executives of entities on a countermeasure list could also come under pressure, with potential implications for a large number of people and businesses.
"affected businesses could lose entire access to the chinese market, and chinese citizens and institutions will need to cut ties with affected ngos and think tanks," zhang told afp.
the law could also create severe compliance issues for multinational companies.
part of the legislation prohibits those in china from going along with designated foreign sanctions.
it acts in a similar way to a european blocking statute "which nullified the effect of us iran sanctions within the eu", said ku.
this puts foreign businesses in a bind if they cannot legally comply with both us sanctions and chinese prohibitions.
why now?the law builds on earlier measures which prevent companies and individuals from complying with foreign sanctions targeting china.
in an explainer on the national people's congress website, an official said the law was passed in a short period of time because there was "an urgent need to counter the hegemonism and power politics of certain western countries".
the law will help "counteract the containment and suppression" china faces, the official added.
beijing has long complained about us sanctions and trade restrictions affecting chinese companies.
but in recent months biden has stepped up us criticism over intellectual property theft and alleged human rights abuses in hong kong and the northwestern xinjiang region.
how much of a threat is it?ku warned the law had "some reasonable parts, and some troubling parts".
the section allowing for retaliatory sanctions "is unprecedented compared to other countries' sanctions regimes", he said.
foreign companies are regularly caught in the crosshairs of tension between china and western nations, including recent nationalist attacks on fashion brand h&m for voicing concern about forced labour claims in xinjiang.
zhang said she believes chinese authorities will not immediately wield the new powers, given that anxiety among foreign businesses could lead to more decoupling.
"if, however, foreign governments continue to press on with aggressive sanctions, then i believe china will start deploying those anti-sanctions laws to demonstrate their coercive power," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: a 46-year-old man who had spent more than 20 years on the run for immigration offences he committed has been arrested, said the corrupt practices investigation bureau (cpib) on friday (jun 11).
siva kumar ramachandram, who is malaysian, was arrested by the cpib with the help of the malaysian anti-corruption commission (macc) on mar 4 last year.
on sep 24, 1999, siva was convicted and sentenced to five years' jail and 12 strokes of the cane for engaging in a conspiracy to smuggle illegal immigrants from singapore into malaysia through woodlands checkpoint.
the conspiracy involved bribing a cisco officer to allow buses ferrying the illegal immigrants to pass through the checkpoint without immigration clearance.
the cisco officer was convicted on oct 5, 1999 and was sentenced to 12 months' jail and fined s$2,800 for corruption.
siva later absconded from singapore sometime in 1999, while released on bail pending appeal of his conviction and sentence.
an arrest warrant for him was issued on mar 9, 2000, the date of his appeal hearing, which he failed to turn up for.
cipb investigations revealed that in october 1999, siva left singapore for malaysia in the vehicle of an unknown individual known as "boy".
"boy" had produced a passport belonging to someone else to the immigration officer at woodlands checkpoint.
this led the immigration officer into believing siva was someone else, thus allowing him to leave singapore, said the authorities.
he was arrested on mar 4, 2020 and brought back to singapore.
siva was charged on apr 16 this year with offences punishable under the immigration act and the penal code.
on friday, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six months' jail with effect from the expiry of his existing five-year sentence meted out in 1999, said the bureau.
"the invaluable assistance and strong support by the macc has resulted in siva's arrest on mar 4, 2020.
"cpib is grateful for the close collaboration with the macc on this case to ensure that the offender was brought to justice and there was no escaping the long arm of the law," it said.
the bureau said singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and other criminal activities.
"cpib's mandate is to investigate into any act of corruption in the public and private sectors in singapore, and in the course of doing so, any other offences under any written law," it said.
anyone who is convicted of knowingly producing any false or misleading document under the immigration act can be sentenced to jail for up to two years and be fined up to s$6,000.
anyone who is convicted of failing to appear before a court of justice under the penal code can be sentenced to jail for up to six months and be fined up to s$5,000.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the bts x mcdonald's second merch drop is happening soon!to celebrate the ongoing release of the bts meal around the world, bts and mcdonald's are releasing another merch collection.
while their previous merch drop featured the bts x mcd logo on shirts, bags, hats, slippers, socks, and more, the second drop will feature the global superstars' hand-drawn designs.
the new collection arrives on 17 june, 8 am kst/jst (7 am pht/sgt, 16 june, 7 pm est) via the weverse shop.
check out the hand-drawn designs by rm, jin, suga, j-hope, jimin, v, and jungkook here:the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/sbdiykwbmu

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/ta2nyvxcla

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/1gw4xf3469

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/msjcswflin

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/hju4krcpmt

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/ziikegdiy1

the art the artist 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/qyzovowrqethe art the artists 👇 👇 pic.
twitter.
com/ofmrz2votz

check out when the bts meal is coming to your country:26 may malaysia 27 may south korea, vietnam1 june india (delhi)3 june hong kong, macau4 june india (mumbai)9 june indonesia, taiwan18 june philippines (pre-release: 17 june)21 june singapore (originally 27 may)14 july thailandin the meantime, watch bts with their latest single, 'butter':  2011 2021 bandwagon pte ltdor sign in with your bandwagon account
jewel changi airport reopens to the public on jun 14, but passenger terminals remain closed to allow the airport community to adapt to new zoning measures and safety protocols.
singapore: the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) will set aside s$15 million to help airport workers adjust to enhanced safety measures put in place after more than 100 covid-19 cases were linked to the airport last month.
about 5,000 workers will benefit from the s$15 million, which will be used to provide a monthly special allowance and cater meals for workers for six months, as well as defray the cost of personal protective equipment, they said.
last month changi airport became singapore's largest active covid-19 cluster, with more than 100 cases, with caas and cag saying at the time that preliminary investigations suggested that theinitial transmissioncould have occurred through an airport worker who was "assisting a family from south asia".
subsequently changi airport's passenger terminals, as well as entertainment and retail complex jewel, were closed to the public, while additional covid-19 testing was introduced for arrivals from 'very high-risk' countries and regions.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), caas and cag said there have not been any new covid-19 positive cases involving airport workers since may 20.
"of the 43 airport workers who had tested positive, 42 have been discharged and the remaining worker is recovering in a hospital general ward without oxygen supplementation," they said.
they added that they have been working closely with the health ministry and the airport community to "review and strengthen changi airport's defences against the more transmissible covid-19 variants".
enhanced safety measures have been implemented to protect airport workers, travellers and the public, they said.
"cohorting arrangements for airport workers have been tightened through a zonal system to reduce the risk of cross infection," they said.
"in particular, airport workers in the passenger terminal piers, arrival immigration halls and baggage claim halls who have interactions with arriving and transfer passengers and therefore are at higher risk of exposure to the virus, are now required to remain in their work zone throughout their shift, including during their meal and rest times," they said.
these workers are also required to be in "higher levels" of ppe throughout the duration of their shifts, except for meal and rest times.
deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed, while anenhanced segregated zoning systemannounced last month has been implemented, said caas and cag.
"airport workers have been briefed and trained on the new measures and requirements, to allow the new measures and safety protocols to be implemented smoothly," they said, noting there would also be regular reminders, checks and audits on health safety as an "added safeguard".
"the safety of our airport workers remains our top priority.
we are therefore supportive of the tightened measures to ensure they are protected in the course of their work," said national trades union congress deputy secretary-general cham hui fong.
"our unions will continue to work closely with the relevant stakeholders to mitigate any impact on them, and to ensure their wellbeing is taken care of," she added.
jewel to reopen on jun 14jewel, which has been closed to the public since may 13, will reopen on jun 14. changi airport's passenger terminals will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adapt to the new zoning measures, which require "significant operational adjustments", said caas and cag.
more details on the reopening of the passenger terminals will be released at a later date, they said.
since may 23, airport workers in higher risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test (art) between their seven-day polymerase chain reaction-based rostered routine tests.
cag and caas said that since jun 3, it has been testing the use of the traciex breathalyser, which allows workers to blow into a disposable breathalyser fitted with a proprietary sensor chip instead of undergoing an art.
traciex was given provisional authorisation by the health sciences authority on may 27.
"the breathalyser will then be inserted into a portable reading device for vibrational spectroscopy analysis, which will be able to tell if a person is infected with covid-19 within two minutes," said cag and caas.
this will allow workers to receive their results faster than with the current art, they said, adding that workers would also experience less discomfort as the test is non-invasive.
"we aim to progressively replace the art for more airport workers with the traciex breathalyser in the coming months.
this will also allow us to step up the frequency of testing so that we can more quickly detect, isolate and treat any potential covid-19 cases in the airport community," they said.
transport minister s iswaran, who visited changi airport on friday, described the new breathalyser test as a "potential game changer" due to its method of administration.
"we will gradually be scaling up the use of this breathalyser to validate its efficacy, and to be able to then scale up its use for a much wider range of workers," he said, noting workers had told him the new test was a welcome alternative to the more invasive pcr and art tests.
reopening travelwhen asked about comments made by south korean authorities that the country planned to expedite travel bubble plans with singapore, mr iswaran said singapore was "engaging in dialogue with many potential partners".
to allow for cross-border travel, key elements such as mutual recognition of vaccinations and testing protocols need to be in place, he said.
meanwhile the enhanced safety measures allow the airport to adapt more quickly to emerging risks, he said, describing these measures as an important part of singapore's "overall posture towards a calibrated and safe reopening of travel".
"once we have those elements in place then, at the appropriate time, when the ambient conditions are there, we can then activate that plan and mobilise the airlines and other partners to facilitate the kind of cross-border travel that we want to achieve.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
benjamin netanyahu has pushed israeli politics firmly to the right over the years (file)israeli lawmakers are to vote sunday on a "change" coalition government of bitter ideological rivals united by their determination to banish prime minister benjamin netanyahu from power.
the crunch knesset vote will either terminate the hawkish premier's uninterrupted 12-year tenure or return israel to a stalemate likely to trigger a fifth general election since 2019. netanyahu, who is battling a clutch of corruption charges in an ongoing trial he dismisses as a conspiracy, has pushed israeli politics firmly to the right over the years.
on saturday night, around 2,000 protesters rallied outside the 71-year-old's official residence to celebrate what they believe will be his departure from office.
"for us, this is a big night and tomorrow will be even a bigger day.
i am almost crying.
we fought peacefully for this (netanyahu's departure) and the day has come," said protester ofir robinski.
a fragile eight-party alliance, ranging from the right-wing jewish nationalist yamina party to arab lawmakers, was early this month cobbled together by centrist politician yair lapid.
on friday, all coalition agreements had been signed and submitted to the knesset secretariat, yamina announced, a moment party leader naftali bennett said brought "to an end two and a half years of political crisis".
but the ever-combative netanyahu has tried to peel off defectors that would deprive the nascent coalition of its wafer thin legislative majority.
'peaceful transition'if the new government is confirmed, bennett, a former defence minister, would serve as premier for two years.
coalition architect lapid, who heads the yesh atid party and is a former television presenter, would then take the helm.
the anti-netanyahu bloc spans the political spectrum, including three right-wing, two centrist and two left-wing parties, along with an arab islamic conservative party.
the improbable alliance emerged two weeks after an 11-day war between israel and hamas, the islamist group that rules the palestinian enclave of gaza and following inter-communal violence in israeli cities with significant arab populations.
"we will work together, out of partnership and national responsibility -- and i believe we will succeed," bennett said friday.
sunday's crucial knesset session is due to open at 4:00 pm local time (1300 gmt), with bennett, lapid and netanyahu all set to speak before the vote.
netanyahu has heaped pressure on his former right-wing allies to defect from the fledgling coalition while attacking the legitimacy of the bennett-lapid partnership.
he has accused bennett of "fraud" for siding with rivals, and angry rallies by the premier's likud party supporters have resulted in security being bolstered for some lawmakers.
netanyahu's bombastic remarks as he sees his grip on power slip have drawn parallels at home and abroad to former us president donald trump, who described his election loss last year as the result of a rigged vote.
the prime minister has called the prospective coalition "the greatest election fraud in the history" of israel.
his likud party said the accusations refer to bennett entering a coalition that "doesn't reflect the will of the voters".
'scorched earth'sunday's vote arrives hot on the heels of police crackdowns on palestinian protests over the threatened eviction of families from homes in israeli-annexed east jerusalem to make way for jewish settlers, a month after similar clashes fuelled the latest war between israel and hamas.
it also comes amid right-wing anger over the postponement of a controversial jewish nationalist march.
netanyahu favoured finding a way to allow the so-called "march of the flags", originally scheduled to take place last thursday, to proceed as planned.
he took that position despite the original route envisaging the march unfolding close to flashpoint areas including the al-aqsa mosque compound, where clashes last month triggered the gaza conflict.
the premier's insistence saw his opponents accuse him and his allies of stoking tensions to cling onto power via a "scorched-earth" campaign.
if netanyahu loses the premiership, he will not be able to push through changes to basic laws that could give him immunity in regard to his corruption trial.
the controversial flag march is now slated for tuesday and ongoing tensions surrounding it could represent a key initial test for any approved coalition.
(except for the headline, this story has not been edited by ndtv staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
)track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.

                    friday, 11 jun 2021
                the meeting between australia's pm scott morrison and singapore leader lee hsien loong on thursday (june 10) was the first in-person meeting between them in more than a year.
the straits times/annsingapore, june 11 (bloomberg): a planned quarantine-free travel corridor between australia and singapore may take months to open because of delays to australia's covid-19 vaccination programme.
the two countries are "putting systems in place that will enable such a bubble to emerge between singapore and australia as it does now occur between australia and new zealand, " australia prime minister scott morrison said at a joint virtual press conference after meeting singapore prime minister lee hsien loong on thursday.
he cautioned that any corridor is still some time away.
such a bubble hinges on vaccination rates, lee told reporters.
"once the majority of the population is vaccinated, it becomes much easier for us to contemplate these openings up, " he said.
that means an operational air-travel corridor could be months away, at least.
only about 5.
5 million out of 26 million australians have had at least one jab, meaning some border restrictions are likely to remain well into next year.
morrison's government has abandoned its original october target to inoculate the population.
singapore and australia are among a handful of asia-pacific countries that have managed to contain the coronavirus and have been reluctant to ease border restrictions.
australia has largely closed its shores to non-citizens and residents since last year, while singapore doesn't allow most short-term visitors to enter, except for those under programs such as a green lane for business travelers.
australia's strategy of eliminating covid-19 cases within the community has come under increasing pressure due to leaks of the virus into the community from hotels used to quarantine australians returning from overseas, triggering localised lockdowns.
melbourne, the second-most populous city with more than five million people, exited a two-week lockdown on friday.
morrison said discussions between the nations have included giving priority to students from singapore to return to australia to complete their studies.
that would be a "first opportunity" for increased travel between the nations, he said.
"when all the preparations are ready, then we can start small with an air-travel bubble to build confidence, " lee said at the media conference.
morrison was on an official visit to the city-state, and is due in the u. k.  to attend the group of seven leaders' summit this weekend.
bloomberg
tags / keywords:
australia
                                                                ,
                                                                                                singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                travel bubble
                                                                ,
                                                                                                takes time
                                                                ,
                                                                                                few months
                                                                ,
                                                                                                at least
                                                                ,
                                                                                                morrison
                                                                ,
                                                                                                lee



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
the covid-19 vaccine task force of the u. s.  centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) stated that it has observed increased cases of heart inflammation in adolescents and younger adults, especially aged 12 to 24, following inoculation with authorized mrna-based covid-19 vaccines from moderna mrna, and pfizer pfe/biontech bntx.
several hundreds of cases of myocarditis and pericarditis, both conditions of heart inflammation, were reported to the u. s.  government's vaers (vaccine adverse event reporting system) following dose 1 of any mrna-based vaccine in the last two months.
please note that vaers is a national early warning system to detect possible safety problems in u. s.  licensed vaccines.
the number of cases increased further after the second dose of these vaccines.
moreover, the cases occurred in higher number of younger patients following dose 2 compared to dose 1.  the cdc stated that similar inflammation cases were not reported following vaccination with j&j's jnj adenovirus-based covid-19 vaccine.
per a reuters report, the israel's health ministry raised the alarm when it reported a likely link of heart inflammation in young men vaccinated with pfizer's bnt162b earlier this month.
following this report, the cdc and health regulators in other countries started investigating such cases.
although the number of reported cases is small compared to total inoculations with mrna vaccines, they were higher than expected in the younger age groups.
we note that the cdc is yet to link these adverse events to mrna vaccines and has scheduled a meeting of the advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) on jun 18 to discuss and assess the heart inflammation reports.
moreover, the government authority has recommended continuation of vaccination for everyone of age 12 or older given the risk of covid-19 illness and related complications.
however, we note that the cdc report also stated that more than 50% of heart inflammation cases were reported in the age group of 12-24 that has received only 8.
8% of vaccine doses.
this suggests that any adverse outcome from the acip meeting scheduled next week can hamper vaccination with mrna vaccines in the adolescent patient group, and hurt prospects of these vaccine developers.
however, the percentage of inflammation cases suggests that the risk from these vaccines is significantly lower than their benefits.
a cdc study claims that these vaccines are 91% effective.
moreover, most patients facing inflammation issues quickly felt better following medication and rest.
we remind investors that pfizer/biontech's covid-19 vaccine received authorization for emergency use in adolescents last month from the fda.
moderna filed for a similar authorization in the united states, europe and canada earlier this month.
meanwhile, pfizer and biontech have pledged two billion doses of their covid-19 vaccines to ensure equitable access to their vaccines globally.
as part of the pledge, the company plans to supply 200 million doses in 2021 and 300 million doses in the first half of 2022 to the u. s.  government at not-for-profit price.
the government will donate these doses to low- and lower middle-income countries and organizations that support them.
while moderna and pfizer carry a zacks rank #3 (hold), biontech sports a zacks rank of 1 (strong buy).
you can see the complete list of today's zacks #1 rank stocks here.
in addition to the stocks you read about above, would you like to see zacks' top picks to capitalize on the internet of things (iot)?
it is one of the fastest-growing technologies in history, with an estimated 77 billion devices to be connected by 2025.  that works out to 127 new devices per second.
zacks has released a special report to help you capitalize on the internet of things's exponential growth.
it reveals 4 under-the-radar stocks that could be some of the most profitable holdings in your portfolio in 2021 and beyond.
click here to download this report free >>want the latest recommendations from zacks investment research?
today, you can download 7 best stocks for the next 30 days.
click to get this free report johnson & johnson (jnj) : free stock analysis report pfizer inc.  (pfe) : free stock analysis report moderna, inc.  (mrna) : free stock analysis report biontech se sponsored adr (bntx) : free stock analysis report to read this article on zacks.
com click here.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore he was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a maid who was walking along a sheltered footpath.
but instead of helping her, sy yong da, 26, drove away and sent his car to a workshop to try to have it repaired to cover up what he had done.
the maid, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, was later found dead at the scene.
she leaves behind two sons, aged eight and 19, and her husband, in the philippines.
on friday (june 11), sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
another two charges for failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, sy drove his silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on farrer road a road with a speed limit of 70kmh towards the direction of queensway.
he was intoxicated at the time and was sleepy, closing his eyes as he veered across two lanes and crashed into the sheltered footpath.
he ran his car into ms ocampo, who was on her way back home from the market, causing her to be flung onto a pillar.
sy immediately steered back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
sy drove away from the scene, went home to his condo unit at spanish village and called a towing company that he found online.
his car was towed away at about 7.
30am.
he later went down to the workshop in kaki bukit, waiting outside from 9.
15am, and handed over the car keys when it finally opened at 10am.
sy then went home to sleep.
ms domielyn santos ocampo, who was found dead at the scene, leaves behind two sons and her husband, in the philippines.
photo: facebook
it took five investigation officers to track sy down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder at the scene.
when questioned, he told them where the car was and took them to the workshop.
the car was seized before repairs were done.
the owner of the workshop did not proceed with the repairs because sy had not provided a police report detailing the accident.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash and slept very little.
but he decided to take his female friend, identified as one "alicia", out for a meal at a mcdonald's outlet in ang mo kio and drove her home at about 5.
35am despite being sleepy and intoxicated.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and to have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. for killing ms ocampo, he could have been jailed for up to 10 years.
for obstructing the course of justice, he could have been jailed for up to seven years or fined, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
(reuters) mcdonald's was forced to briefly shut some outlets in indonesia earlier this week when the launch of a limited edition meal inspired by k-pop group bts sparked frenzied excitement and fears of coronavirus contagion.
videos shared with reuters showed scenes of chaos on wednesday, with upturned tables and chairs and delivery riders massing inside and outside of restaurants, prompting concerns about super-spreader events in a country with one of asia's most stubborn covid-19 outbreaks.
there have been big bts buildups elsewhere, including the philippines, where a special app has been created and videos have appearing on social media apps like tiktok, of mcdonald's staff in multiple outlets mimicking the boy band's moves.
mcdonald's will release the bts meal next week, comprising nuggets, a soft drink fries and two dipping sauces.
abs-cbn news in the philippines quoted a mcdonald's statement saying preparations were being made for high demand, including reinforcement of safety protocols.
(writing by nur-azna sanusi, angela johnston and martin petty; editing by raissa kasolowsky)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderspresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
singapore — a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
muhammad farhan jaffri and his twin brother muhammad fiqkri jaffri, both 26, attacked sergeant chong jiawei, 27, a ground response officer who was on patrol duty on 23 february last year.
the attack left chong unconscious and incapacitated, and he was given 29 days of leave due to his injuries.
farhan, who pleaded guilty to five charges of causing grievous hurt and hurt to a public servant, vandalism, being a member of a secret society and using abusive language on a public servant, was also given three strokes of the cane and fined $3,500.
four charges of a similar nature were considered for his sentencing.
fiqkri's case is still pending before the courts.
he faces seven charges, including causing grievous hurt to a public servant.
on 23 february last year, at about 4am, farhan, who was drunk, was having an argument with his wife at the void deck of block 755 jurong west street 74 when a member of the public called the police over the commotion.
four police officers, including chong, were dispatched to the location, and they saw farhan's wife in tears.
a female police officer was checking on the wife when farhan became defensive.
at this point, fiqkri arrived and approached the officers aggressively, pointing his finger at the officers and demanding to know why they were questioning his brother.
fiqkri asked farhan and his wife to return to his unit and asked the police officers to "shut up".
farhan left but verbally abused the female police officer first.
within minutes, farhan returned and shouted that he did not like the faces of the officers.
his twin asked farhan whose face he did not like and farhan gestured at chong's face.
fiqkri turned to chong and swung his fist at the officer's face.
chong fell to the ground and farhan joined him in assaulting the police officer.
farhan and fiqkri rained punches and kicks on the officer, despite attempts by the other officers to restrain the brothers.
the brothers hurt another male officer, who was on reservist, during the struggle.
their violence prompted the female police officer to draw her baton and call for reinforcement.
they finally managed to handcuff fiqkri.
two other police officers arrived and handcuffed farhan.
after farhan was escorted into the police vehicle, he yelled and knocked his head on the window repeatedly.
he then kicked the window three times, causing the right rear window to shatter.
at that point in time, one officer was standing guard beside the right rear seat of the vehicle.
the damage cost $201.
farhan has since made full restitution.
chong was conveyed to hospital.
his medical report, dated 9 march last year, stated that as a result for the attack, chong slumped to the ground and briefly lost consciousness.
he was diagnosed with abrasions over his eyelid, laceration over his ear, facial bruises, and a concussion.
he was admitted for two days into the neurosurgery ward for monitoring.
due to his traumatic head injury, chong was given 29 days of hospitalisation leave.
the other officer who was injured had bruises and abrasion over his head.
both officers' medical bills were covered by service insurance.
deputy public prosecutor chng luey chi sought a jail term of between 39 months and 4 weeks, and 39 months and 6 weeks, along with three strokes of the cane and a fine of $3,500 against farhan.
citing chong's victim impact statement, dpp chng told the court that the police officer was deployed to an administrative role for a month before returning to a frontline role.
"this was to help the victim build up confidence in the execution of his duties as a frontline officer.
moreover, the incident had caused the victim worries about how his supervisors might perceive his abilities," said dpp chng.
the manner of the attack was "sustained, brutal, and cruel", said dpp chng, who noted that farhan had attacked the officer simply because he "did not like" chong's face.
voluntarily causing grievous hurt to a public servant carries a jail term of up to 15 years, and fine or caning.
causing hurt to a public servant carries a jail term of seven years and fine or caning.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother singapore stories:hsa busts vision empire illegal mask manufacturing facilitysingapore and australia to work towards air travel bubble, with priority on studentssingapore-hk atb review in july, no 'firm plans' for south korea travel bubblecyclist who punched lorry driver along jalan eunos fined $5,600man assaulted private hire car driver in road rage incidentchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed betager med flot design, imponerende udstyr og stor power.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilpresident vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
several thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
euro 2020 was still reeling sunday after denmark midfielder christian eriksen collapsed and had to be revived by medics on the pitch during his country's defeat to finland.
this is the moment a gang mowed down a man twice in a brutal attack.
gang leader david 'porky' clark, 36, was driving a mercedes when he and his crew deliberately tried to run over the victim in ridley street, southwick, sunderland.
as the man tried to flee in a silver hatchback, clark and the driver of a volvo rammed the car and smashed into another parked vehicle.
he was hit twice by the cars and his vehicle rammed a further three times in the shocking attack on april 5, 2020. watch: moment gang repeatedly ran over man in brutal attackmoments later, clark – aided by shaun hewitt, shaun mcgregor and leigh coulson disarmed luke owen, who possessed a machete.
owen was then stabbed with the machete in the middle of the street, leaving him with serious leg injuries and cuts to his face.
earlier on the same evening, clark's girlfriend coulson threatened an occupant on the same street as the attack.
she told the victim he would be "burnt to a crisp" and said a car would be driven through his living room.
a vehicle was reversed into the front door of the address and set on fire later that night.
all five gang members, from sunderland, admitted a string of offences at newcastle crown court in february.
on friday ringleader clark was jailed for 44 months after he admitted assault, dangerous driving and violent disorder.
coulson, 33, pleaded guilty to violent disorder and threats to commit criminal damage by fire and received a 12-month suspended sentence.
hewitt, 29, mcgregor, 32, and owen, 34, all admitted violent disorder and owen also pleaded guilty to possession of an offensive weapon.
hewitt was jailed for one year, mcgregor was jailed for 15 months and owen received an 11-month sentence suspended for 12 months.
detective inspector andy richardson, of northumbria police, said: "the violence that we saw on the streets of southwick that night was appalling and all five defendants should be ashamed of themselves.
"the series of incidents unfolded in a residential area where families watched on in shock – and they will no doubt have been horrified to see this level of offending justyards from their front door.
"clark was at the centre of the disorder and is somebody who has consistently shown a total disregard for the law.
"i am pleased that he is now behind bars and the severity of his crimes reflected in his sentence.
"we will not tolerate violence in our communities and hope this outcome offers reassurance to our communities.
"we are committed to continue tackling serious and organised criminality.
"china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
submitted by stomper terencethis story was submitted via facebook.
click here to join our facebook page.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
this story was submitted via facebook.
click here to join our facebook page.
click here to submit a story or submit it to our whatsapp.
a stomper has praised a passer-by for performing cardiopulmonary resuscitation (cpr) to revive a man who had collapsed on a pavement at bukit merah on thursday morning (june 10).
stomper terence shared with stomp what he witnessed.
"this lady in pink revived an uncle who had fainted," he said.
"from her skill of performing resuscitation, she looks like she's from the healthcare sector.
"the uncle was totally unconscious and had no reaction until she started pumping hard.
"an ambulance arrived for the uncle and took over after which, the lady left.
"i think she's the hero of the day and it would be great if she gets recognition.
"in response to a stomp query, the singapore civil defence force (scdf) said they received a call for assistance at block 115 bukit merah view at about 11.
10am.
"scdf conveyed one person to singapore general hospital," an scdf spokesman said.
get more of stomp's latest updates by following us on facebook, whatsapp, twitter, instagram and youtube.
view the discussion thread.
view the discussion thread.
download the new stomp app today.
sph digital news | the straits timesall rights reserved | terms & conditions | data protection policy | advertise with ussph digital news / stomp / copyright (c) 2019 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
climate impact x is a welcome addition to the country's climate action initiatives that provide new economic opportunities, help price discovery and can aid future compliance, say energy researchers.
singapore: singapore took another big step in advancing the green agenda last month.
the country on may 20 announced plans to position itself as a hub for carbon services.
climate impact x (cix) is a joint venture between the development bank of singapore, singapore exchange, standard chartered bank and temasek holdings.
first envisioned by the emerging stronger taskforce's alliance for action on sustainability, cix will provide a marketplace for trading carbon credits commencing in late 2021. singapore is well-suited to hosting a carbon marketplace.
it is an ideal base for multinational companies working on projects that generate emission credits across the region.
as a regional leader for commodities trading, singapore also deals with many energy majors and traders who will form a large part of the clientele for carbon market ancillary services.
there are already around 30 firms here offering carbon consulting services, which include low-carbon project development, consulting and verification for the registration of certified emissions-reduction credits, carbon footprint measurement, project financing and legal services.
the launch of a carbon marketplace can attract more of such consultancies in a key growth industry.
(what will cix bring to the table of carbon trading and climate action?
find out on the climate conversations.
)a welcome addition to singapore's climate action initiativescix is a welcome addition to the suite of emission-cutting initiatives and institutions in singapore that helps the country accelerate its peak and net-zero emissions timelines.
under the paris agreement, singapore'snationally determined contributionis to peak emissions at 65 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent around 2030.  singapore also seeks to halve peak emissions to 33 million tonnes by 2050 and achieve net zero emissions as soon as viable during the second half of the century.
a key innovation of cix includes provisions for trading nature-based solutions.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
nature-based climate solutions like mangroves, wetlands and forests can absorb vast amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
a recent study by researchers at the nus centre for nature-based climate solutions estimates reforestation in southeast asia can contribute to 3.
4 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions reductions per year.
reforestation, coupled with supply chain transparency and harmonised standards for carbon offsets, can translate into a ready source of carbon credits.
as an exchange focused on such carbon credits, cix will enhance the climate finance ecosystem within singapore and expand the range of mechanisms for firms to manage and price their carbon externalities.
google, microsoft and amazon are said to be in talks to use cix in their journey to become net-zero emitters.
moreover, it offers another way for singapore to widen the international scope of its environmental management activities.
the right price for carboncix can aid with the adjustment of singapore's carbon tax – which came into effect in january 2019 – by expanding the array of tools used for pricing carbon in singapore.
this will permit the singapore government some freedom when discussing future, probably upward revision to the current tax, since local firms will have the ability to defray their "carbon costs" in other ways.
the current tax rate of s$5 per tonne of co2 can be contested for three reasons.
first, the abatement costs are typically considered much higher, and ideally, carbon price would reflect the cost of abatement.
a world bank report published in may notes that a price of us$40 to us$80 (s$50 to s$100) per tonne of co2 is needed to meet the 2 degrees celsius goal.
second, the s$5 price tag might not fully capture carbon embedded in international supply chains and trade.
this has spurred debate around the need for carbon border adjustment mechanisms – a tool for ensuring that domestic and imported goods price their embodied emissions equally, thereby discouraging trade with high-polluting countries that do not have effective carbon pricing mechanisms of their own.
third, singapore's carbon pricing is arguably not a sufficiently liquid mechanism because it changes infrequently.
the government has plans to increase the tax rate to between s$10 and s$15 per tonne by 2030.  the tax level and trajectory post-2023 will be reviewed by 2022, in consultation with industry and expert groups in order to give businesses and opportunity to adjust to changes.
there is wisdom in introducing market-based mechanisms to facilitate the price discovery process and allow emissions to be priced into commercial decisions.
in the absence of such a mechanism, finding the right price for carbon is complex.
it requires striking a balance between reducing the carbon footprint of industries and increasing the costs of doing business, which may negatively impact the competitiveness of singapore's economy.
however, with the pandemic still evolving, the success of singapore's carbon services hub should not be assumed.
increased and quantifiable demand for carbon offsets also suggest an upward trend in emissions-intensive activities in the near term.
getting companies to play ballthe cix is also a first step to getting companies to play ball on singapore's climate obligations.
demand for carbon offsets could arise from several sources.
companies currently paying carbon taxes may purchase credits to defray their carbon tax liability.
similarly, firms or other speculators may purchase credits to trade later for a premium, should this be allowed under the carbon pricing act.
retail trade from individuals seeking socially responsible investment options can also be expected.
yet singapore must not forget there are no industry-level mandatory reduction targets.
many carbon commitments by corporations in the region are currently voluntary, which may limit market participation.
regulation can steward strong market participation.
with rapid global expansion of climate finance, compliance concerns have also grown because of "greenwash" – when companies over-inflate the environmental credentials of their projects.
the devil is in the details.
regulators must provide robust mechanisms for project verification, monitoring and compliance enforcement not only to prevent greenwash, but also to ensure fair benchmarking across all projects.
this could be industry initiated, where carbon credit and offset suppliers commit to co-develop and implement greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodologies for their respective sectors.
regulators will then be able to assess the methodologies that improve transparency in carbon credit transactions.
having recognised the complexity of scaling up global carbon markets, the global institute on finance's taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets has launched a consultation on creating "high-integrity" markets, due to end in late june.
it seeks to establish "a threshold standard for high-quality credits, clear legal standards and uniting existing, fragmented carbon credit markets in one impactful, well-run system".
to ensure the integrity and quality of its credits, cix will work with global partners including the taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets and the natural climate solutions alliance.
it will also use cutting-edge data analytics, such as satellite monitoring, machine learning and blockchain technology to ensure the environmental integrity of credits traded on cix.
global rating agencies might be roped in to provide independent environmental ratings for nature-based projects which will issue carbon credits.
it is important singapore provides a well-run and trusted market for carbon offsets while expanding emissions-reduction efforts.
however, to meet its own national targets, companies must ultimately commit to less carbon-intensive production models and not simply "pay to play" by exploiting offsets.
melissa low is research fellow at the energy studies institute, national university of singapore.
david broadstock is senior research fellow and lead energy economist at the same institute.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.

                        the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
representational image
                        the daily covid-19 count in india remained below the one-lakh mark for the fifth consecutive day with the country reporting 84,332 fresh cases, its lowest in 70 days, according to data updated by the union health ministry on saturday.
with the fresh cases, the infection tally has climbed to 2,93,59,155.  the covid-19 death toll climbed to 3,67,081 with 4,002 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed.
the number of active cases further declined to 10,80,690 accounting for 3.
68 percent of the total infections, while the national covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 95.
07 per cent.
india's active caseload declined to less than 11 lakh after 63 days while 84,332 new cases reported in 24 hours are the lowest in 70 days, the ministry said.
also, 20,44,131 coronavirus tests were conducted on friday taking the total number to 37,42,42,384. the daily positivity rate was recorded at 4.
39 percent.
it has been less than 10 per cent for the 19th consecutive day, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has also declined to 4.
94 per cent.
recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 30th consecutive day.
the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,79,11,384, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.
25 percent, the data stated.
other highlights- seven-day moving average of new cases below 1 lakh after 66 days- tamil nadu reports 15.
76k new cases, kerala 14.
23k, maharashtra 11.
76k- maharashtra reports 2619 new deaths, tamil nadu 378, karnataka 159- five states/uts report rise in active cases: maharashtra, bihar, west bengal, arunachal pradesh, a&n islands- difference between new cases reported in the last 7 days and the preceding 7 days is -32percent (world average is -14 percent)- 34.
34 lakh new vaccinations.
24.
96 crore total.
31.
08 lakh received their first dose yesterday, 3.
26 lakh second dose- 19.
20 lakh new tests.
test positivity rate: 4.
39 percent (4.
49 percent the previous day)- test positivity rate below 5 percent for the 5th day- test positivity rate: kerala 13.
45 percent, sikkim 12.
64 percent, goa 12.
52 percent.
uttar pradesh 0.
20 percent, delhi 0.
41 percent, madhya pradesh 0.
55 percent- active cases in india now less than in brazil
                updated date:
                
                    june 12, 2021 12:11:07 ist
                

                        tags:
                    
                coronavirus updates: maharashtra also reported less than 20,000 covid-19 cases for the sixth consecutive on saturday
            
                coronavirus live news updates: the cm also reviewed the status of paediatric icus, which are being set up at various government hospitals, and functioning of 13 oxygen plants in the state
            
                coronavirus news updates: the tally of covid-19 cases in mumbai rose to 7,15,146, while the toll reached 15,146. 









            sign up for a weekly curated briefing of the most important strategic affairs stories from across the world.
firstpostsectionplustoolsappsnetwork18 sites copyright © 2021.  firstpost all rights reserved.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new delhi (reuters) india on saturday (june 12) cut taxes on medical equipment such as oxygen concentrators and drugs used to treat covid-19 infections, after widespread criticism over healthcare costs during a devastating second wave of the virus in april and may.
the government cut taxes on medical grade oxygen, ventilators, the remdesivir antiviral drug, diagnostic kits, pulse oximeters and hand sanitisers to 5 per cent from 12-18 per cent with immediate effect.
the new levies will be in place until the end of september, finance minister nirmala sitharaman said, adding it would include taxes on electric furnaces in crematoriums and ambulances.
"the rate cut has not be done with any cost implication (on government finances) in mind, it has been done so that people get some ease.
.
.
.
the decision has been taken to provide ultimate ease to patients," revenue secretary tarun bajaj told a news conference.
the government, however, would continue to tax vaccines at 5 per cent, he added.
the world's second-most populous country, where coronavirus cases hit a peak of 400,000 a day in may, reported 84,332 new infections on saturday, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
there were 4,002 deaths.
the south asian country's total covid-19 cases stands at 29.
4 million, with 367,081 fatalities.
during the second wave of the virus many people resorted to costly private treatment in what is still a low-income country.
others paid twenty times the usual price for oxygen cylinders on the black market and huge sums to secure ambulances and hearses.
experts have said millions of people remain vulnerable to new surges of infections, particularly in the countryside where two-thirds of the population lives.
prime minister narendra modi has said the government would take over the inoculation programme from indian states and offer free doses to everyone over the age of 18. the government would allow private hospitals to have 25 per cent of all vaccine supplies, but not to charge more than 150 rupees (s$2.
72) over the cost of the dose, he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the man caught naked on several video clips this week, including while riding a motorcycle, was charged on saturday (june 12).
yeo qi wei, 24, faced one charge of appearing nude in a public place.
he is alleged to have appeared nude at the open-space carpark of block 212 lorong 8 toa payoh on june 10 at about 5.
45am.
district judge ronald gwee ordered that yeo be remanded at the institute of mental health for two weeks for psychiatric observation.
the police told the straits times on friday that a man had been arrested and was being investigated for other offences, including public nuisance, performing an obscene act in public, trespass and traffic violations, in separate incidents reported.
interest in the incident followed the circulation of a photo on june 10.  it showed a naked man on a motorcycle at a cross junction in eunos.
a video clip of the man also began circulating the same day, showing him riding nude on a motorcycle along the pan island expressway at about 100kmh.
a second clip later surfaced, showing him climbing on top of a car while naked.
the driver of the car could be seen coming out from his vehicle and making a call while looking at the man, who later walked off.
yeo's case is expected to be mentioned again on june 25. if convicted of appearing nude in a public place, he may be jailed for up to three months, or fined up to $2,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: twelve people are being investigated for alleged illegal gambling activities and breaking of covid-19 safe distancing rules at a home in bukit panjang, said the singapore police force (spf) on friday (jun 11).
the suspects seven men and five women are aged between 21 and 70, the police said in a news release.
officers from jurong police division conducted an operation at about 9pm on thursday at a home along gangsa road.
during the operation, they found the 12 purportedly gathering and engaging in gambling-related activities, said spf.
the suspects will be investigated for non-compliance of safe distancing measures.
under the current phase 2 (heightened alert) restrictions, two distinct visitors per household are allowed daily.
among them, a 55-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man were arrested for allegedly using the unit as a common gaming house.
three other women and another man aged 48 to 70 are being investigated for gaming in a common gaming house.
the police seized cash and gambling-related items, and investigations are ongoing.
anyone found guilty of using a place as a common gaming house may be fined s$5,000 to s$50,000 and jailed for up to three years.
suspects convicted of gaming in a common gaming house face a fine of up to s$5,000, up to six months' imprisonment or both.
spf said it takes "a serious view against all forms of illegal gambling activities and will continue to take tough enforcement action" against such lawbreakers.
it also advised the public not to engage in illegal gambling and to comply with the prevailing safe distancing measures.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the police arrested a man who was filmed climbing on top of a car and riding his motorcycle in the buff on june 10. the 24-year-old will be charged in court on saturday (june 12) with appearing nude in a public place under section 27a(1)(a) of the miscellaneous offences (public order and nuisance) act.
the police told asiaone they were alerted to an incident where a man was reportedly walking around naked at block 212 lorong 8 toa payoh at around 5.
45am on june 10.  in a video that circulated online, he was filmed in an hdb carpark climbing onto the roof of a white car and standing there without wearing a mask.
[[nid:530718]]the driver stepped out of his car and saw the naked man jumping off the vehicle, landing on a grass patch and walking away as though nothing happened.
similar visual accounts of this man were shared on social media on the same day.
in one viral video, he was seen riding a motorcycle — sans helmet, mask or clothes —  on the pan island expressway before exiting at bedok north road.
the video has been viewed over 42,000 times.
netizens poked fun at the clip and some speculated why the man wasn't wearing clothes.
one commenter wrote: "weather too hot".
in another photo, the same motorcyclist was seen waiting at a traffic junction near the masjid darul aman mosque in eunos.
if found guilty of appearing nude in a public place, he will face a fine of up to $2,000, a jail term of up to three months, or both.
alexanderkt@asiaone.
com
singapore he was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a maid who was walking along a sheltered footpath.
but instead of helping her, sy yong da, 26, drove away and sent his car to a workshop to try to have it repaired to cover up what he had done.
the maid, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, was later found dead at the scene.
she leaves behind two sons, aged eight and 19, and her husband, in the philippines.
on friday (june 11), sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
another two charges for failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
[[nid:470814]]at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, sy drove his silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on farrer road a road with a speed limit of 70kmh towards the direction of queensway.
he was intoxicated at the time and was sleepy, closing his eyes as he veered across two lanes and crashed into the sheltered footpath.
he ran his car into ms ocampo, who was on her way back home from the market, causing her to be flung onto a pillar.
sy immediately steered back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
sy drove away from the scene, went home to his condo unit at spanish village and called a towing company that he found online.
his car was towed away at about 7.
30am.
he later went down to the workshop in kaki bukit, waiting outside from 9.
15am, and handed over the car keys when it finally opened at 10am.
sy then went home to sleep.
it took five investigation officers to track sy down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder at the scene.
when questioned, he told them where the car was and took them to the workshop.
the car was seized before repairs were done.
the owner of the workshop did not proceed with the repairs because sy had not provided a police report detailing the accident.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash and slept very little.
but he decided to take his female friend, identified as one "alicia", out for a meal at a mcdonald's outlet in ang mo kio and drove her home at about 5.
35am despite being sleepy and intoxicated.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and to have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. for killing ms ocampo, he could have been jailed for up to 10 years.
for obstructing the course of justice, he could have been jailed for up to seven years or fined, or both.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
rio de janeiro:     nearly two thirds of brazilians oppose the country hosting the upcoming copa america soccer tournament, a poll showed on friday, amid concerns over the country's dire covid-19 outbreak.
the south american football confederation last week unexpectedly relocated the tournament, which kicks off on sunday, with brazilian president jair bolsonaro's backing.
brazil stepped up after co-hosts colombia were dropped because of civil unrest and argentina withdrew after a surge in coronavirus infections.
bolsonaro has played down the severity of the pandemic and fought against lockdowns to control an outbreak that has killed more than 480,000 brazilians.
public health experts, supreme court justices and footballers questioned the wisdom of hosting the tournament with a pandemic raging, while high-profile sponsors have pulled out.
according to an xp/ipespe poll, 64per cent of respondents were against hosting the cup, while 29per cent were in favor.
among bolsonaro's critics, 83per cent were against the tournament in brazil, while 35per cent of his supporters also did not support the competition.
ahead of next year's elections, former leftist president luiz inacio lula da silva appears to be strengthening his lead over bolsonaro, the poll showed.
although neither men have announced their candidacy, the 2022 election is widely expected to be a run-off between the two polarizing figures.
in the first round vote, lula saw his share rise to 32per cent, up three percentage points from a may poll.
bolsonaro's first-round support slipped one percentage point to 28per cent.
in a simulated second-round matchup, lula's support rose to 45per cent from 42per cent in the previous survey, while bolsonaro's fell to 36per cent from 40per cent.
the poll was based on 1,000 interviews, conducted from june 7-10, with a margin of error of 3.
2 percentage points.
(reporting by gabriel stargardter; additional reporting by jamie mcgeever; editing by brad haynes and nick macfie)it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    saturday, 12 jun 2021
                medicinal personnel wait before taking the moderna vaccination against the covid-19 coronavirus at taipei tzu chi hospital in new taipei city on june 9, 2021.  afp
tags / keywords:
taiwan
                                                                ,
                                                                                                several
                                                                ,
                                                                                                people
                                                                ,
                                                                                                scholar
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sueing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                tsai
                                                                ,
                                                                                                for
                                                                ,
                                                                                                misusing
                                                                ,
                                                                                                covid-19 issue



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a wider range of sports activities will be allowed in the coming weeks when singapore enters phase three (heightened alert) on monday (june 14).
selected organised outdoor programmes with a cap of five people up from two may resume, while from june 21, sport competitions and tournaments without spectators will be given the green light as long as they do not exceed 50 persons in each facility.
these were among the latest updates in sport singapore's (sportsg) advisory issued on friday.
the rules for outdoor training for youth and children aged 18 and under will be eased progressively.
for the first week, low- and high-intensity activities will be kept to a maximum of five.
from june 21, this will increase to 30 with multiple groups of five.
for adults, the five-person cap for high-intensity activities will be relaxed from june 21 as well.
swimfast aquatic group founder david lim welcomed the changes.
his academy has been operating at 20 per cent for the past month during the heightened measures for phase 2. high-intensity outdoor activities such as swimming, where masks have to be removed, were restricted to two people and no multiple groups of two are allowed.
this includes the coach or instructor.
as such, lim had to suspend the academy's learn-to-swim sessions since the start of the current heightened phase began on may 16 and continued only his competitive swimming sessions.
he said: "it's a relief, we can legitimately carry on the classes.
now, we're only doing competitive swimming, so it's no different.
we're just like a pool operator.
swimmers book a lane and swim by themselves.
"now we don't have to juggle such small numbers.
we can carry out lessons with four swimmers to one coach.
that ratio is a huge difference to us because when it's one-to-one, we're definitely losing money.
"the multi-ministry task force on thursday had indicated that mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
national agency sportsg's latest update permitting sports competitions as long as different sessions are adequately separated within a day or across multiple days to avoid congregation was welcomed by organisers like lld sports development and management founder lyn yeo.
her company is hoping to get approval for the cartimes singapore junior development tour championship.
the golf event at laguna national was postponed from its original may 31-june 2 date.
she said: "june is typically the busiest tournament season for junior golfers and we are hoping with great excitement that we are able to resume.
"some measures that organisers plan to have in place include temperature screening and safe entry protocols, as well as restricting each flight to two buggies, which have been installed with a full partition.
players and officials will also be required to wear masks throughout their rounds.
for gyms and fitness studios, many of whom are closed due to current restrictions, they will be allowed to restart operations from june 21. staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing, which is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities.
this will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
sportsg also announced that the occupancy limit for sport and recreational facilities will be increased to one person per 10 sq m from one person per 16 sq m, capped at 50 people.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
israel's parliament is expected to approve the formation of a new government later on sunday, ending 12 years of rule by pm benjamin netanyahu.
the prospective government an unprecedented coalition of parties has a razor-thin majority of one seat.
it would also end more than two years of political paralysis in which three elections resulted in stalemate.
right-wing nationalist naftali bennett is poised to become pm in a power-sharing deal with a centrist leader.
under the coalition agreement, mr bennett, who heads the yamina party, will hold office until september 2023, when he will hand over to yair lapid, leader of yesh atid, for a further two years.
mr netanyahu israel's longest-serving leader, who has dominated its political landscape for years would remain head of the right-wing likud party and become leader of the opposition.
he has railed against the likely new government, calling it a "dangerous coalition of fraud and surrender" and has vowed to "overthrow it very quickly".
meanwhile, his trial on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust allegations he denies continues.
mr netanyahu has served a record-breaking five terms, first from 1996 to 1999, then continuously from 2009 to 2021. he called an election in april 2019 but failed to win enough support to form a new coalition government.
two more elections followed, each of which ended inconclusively.
the third election resulted in a government of national unity where mr netanyahu agreed to share power with the then-opposition leader benny gantz.
but the arrangement collapsed in december, triggering a fourth election.
although likud emerged as the largest party in the 120-seat parliament, mr netanyahu was again unable to form a governing coalition and the task was handed to mr lapid, whose party had emerged as the second largest.
opposition to mr netanyahu staying in power had grown, not just among the left and centre but also among right-wing parties that are ordinarily ideologically aligned to likud, including yamina.
although yamina came joint fifth in the election with only seven seats, its support was critical if any potential coalition government was to have a majority in parliament.
after weeks of negotiations, mr lapid brought yamina on board as part of a constellation of parties whose only common goal was to remove mr netanyahu from office.
the agreement involving eight factions with the 61 seats required for a majority was signed on 2 june, just half an hour before a deadline was due to expire, effectively sealing mr netanyahu's fate.
in appearance, mr bennett's government would be unlike any which has preceded it in israel's 73-year history.
the alliance contains parties which have vast ideological differences, and perhaps most significantly includes the first independent arab party to be part of a potential ruling coalition, raam.
it is also expected to have a record number of eight female ministers.
the inclusion of raam and left-wing non-arab israeli parties means there could be friction on issues such as israeli policies towards palestinians yamina and another right-wing party, new hope, are staunch supporters of jewish settlement in the israeli-occupied west bank, for instance.
there could also be difficulties over social policies while some parties want to advance gay rights, such as recognising same sex marriages, raam, an islamist party, is against this.
in addition, some parties want to relax religious restrictions more extensively than yamina a national-religious party will likely allow.
mr bennett has indicated his government would focus on areas where agreement was possible, like economic issues or the coronavirus pandemic, while avoiding more contentious matters.
"nobody will have to give up their ideology," he recently said, "but all will have to postpone the realisation of some of their dreams.
.
.
we'll focus on what can be achieved, rather than arguing about what cannot. "
netanyahu seeks block on deal to oust himthe coalition that could end 'king' bibi's 12-year reignthe rise of naftali bennett, israel's likely pmnetanyahu: commando turned pmattenborough: g7 faces historic climate decisionssir david warns world leaders that humans may be "on the verge of destabilising the entire planet".
denmark's eriksen 'awake' after collapsing in euro 2020 gamenetanyahu faces end of rule in new government vote'it hit the valley floor like 15 atomic bombs''i miss airline meals so much i make them at home'the risquã© business of selling underwear in pakistannuts, wine and juice the many joys of cashewsfrom air force one to beast biden's travel kitthe new dutch wellness trend taking the world by stormthe year in the life of a viral delhi eatery ownerwhen can you trust statistics?unearthing joe biden's unsung english rootslyrics quizhave you been getting these songs wrong?feeling hotwhat happens to your body in extreme heat?biden gifts johnson custom-made bike at g7 summit1attenborough: g7 faces historic climate decisions2eriksen 'awake' after collapsing3disruption to shipping could last until christmas4netanyahu faces end of rule in new government vote5swiss to vote in pesticide ban referendum6bidder pays $28m for space trip with amazon boss7from air force one to beast biden's travel kit8e3 2021 kicks off with avatar and mario reveals9the risquã© business of selling underwear in pakistan10â© 2021 bbc.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
read about our approach to external linking.
a taiwanese court on friday handed prison terms to a dozen former presidential security agents and airline employees over their roles in a cigarette smuggling scandal on the island two years ago.
a bodyguard in president tsai ing-wen's entourage tried to bring in 9,800 cigarette cartons as he returned from an official trip accompanying tsai to the caribbean.
the president said at the time that she had no idea her security team was involved and ordered an investigation.
the agent, identified as wu tsung-hsien of the national security bureau, received the heaviest sentence of 10 years and four months on corruption and tax evasion charges, according to taipei district court.
wu tried to pass the cigarettes off as cargo from tsai's presidential plane in an effort to smuggle them past customs, authorities said.
it was later discovered that the scam was not a one-off when china airlines released figures showing huge amounts of duty-free cigarettes were routinely purchased during presidential visits.
the defendants "deprived the government of tax revenue, and seriously damaged the nation's image", judge huang pei-chen told a virtual press conference.
the value of duty evaded on the cigarettes amounted to nearly tw$8.
2 million ($273,000), according to the court.
wu's colleague and main accomplice chang heng-chia was sentenced to 10 years and two months while six other ex-agents received jail terms ranging from six years and two months to seven years.
four airline employees implicated in the scandal were handed prison terms ranging from two years to five years and four months.
they can appeal the ruling.
the bureau's internal investigation found that most agents bought a few dozen cartons of cigarettes into the island on the trip -- the majority ordering between 11 and 50 cartons.
around 100 others involved in presidential security who have bought cigarettes into taiwan reached deferred prosecution agreements in 2019 and last year.
taiwan's customs law limits travellers to a maximum of five cartons of cigarettes -- and only one can be tax-free.
aw/axnchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the ministry of health (moh) on friday (11 june) confirmed nine new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,245. få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
kia proceed er den frække familiebil, der imponerer med klassens måske flotteste design, rå kraft og en lang udstyrsliste.
what if china were to cut off the united states and europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones?newly-crowned french open champion barbora krejcikova hailed her mentor and former wimbledon champion jana novotna who died in 2017, saying: "at the end of her life, i had to be there.
"a firebrand pakistani scholar has been detained for making death threats against nobel prize laureate malala yousafzai over her comments on marriage, officials said friday.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
right-wing candidate keiko fujimori insisted saturday that peru's presidential election was marred by fraud, as final vote counting dragged on with her leftist rival slightly ahead.
the us food and drug administration said friday it had told johnson & johnson that millions of doses of covid vaccine produced at a troubled plant can't be used because of possible contamination issues.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
not sure what to do with that pile of credits you've banked up over the years?
how about revisiting your national service days with these top 10 buys from the saf emart.
as you're probably aware, the singapore armed forces (saf) consists of young male [.
.
. ]
the post saf emart shopping guide – best things to buy with your ns credits appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
brazilian president jair bolsonaro was fined $100 saturday for violating covid-19 containment measures in sao paulo state by failing to wear a face mask and provoking huge crowds at a motorcycle rally for supporters.
a closer look at the reasons why nong-o gaiyanghadao is considered one of the greatest muay thai fighters of all time.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
even in the face of rising inflation, the lackluster progress on restoring jobs lost during the pandemic means the us federal reserve is unlikely to budge on monetary policy when it meets next week.
an unnamed bidder paid $28 million at auction saturday for a seat alongside jeff bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire's company blue origin next month.
high coverage, no-fuss application and early benefit payout makes this a great plan for those seeking cancer protection.
as many as 1 in 4 singaporeans could develop cancer in their lifetimes.
hence, getting a protection plan specifically for cancer may be a prudent move, especially [.
.
. ]
the post fwd cancer insurance (review): fuss-free plan that pays out at all stages appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersseveral thousand people joined an interfaith marched on friday evening honoring the four members of a muslim family who were killed in an attack that has shocked canada.
french soldiers have killed a malian jihadist suspected of being responsible for the kidnapping and deaths of two french journalists in 2013, defence minister florence parly said friday.
owner-occupiers, landlords and tenants, a heads up: these are some of the hottest home insurance promotions in the house right now.
are you an owner-occupier, landlord, or tenant?
regardless which one you are, you will benefit from home insurance.
as we've discussed in our comprehensive [.
.
. ]
the post home insurance promotions and discounts to protect your home appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
they occur more often in men compared to women.
authordatecategorysingapore – according to the expert committee on covid-19 vaccination in singapore, there is a "very small risk" of heart inflammation after receiving the second dose of an mrna covid-19 vaccine; however, the "benefits continue to outweigh the risks.
"the expert committee is closely monitoring international reports regarding the second dose of an mrna covid-19 vaccine being associated with a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men, said the ministry of health (moh) in a media release on friday (jun 11).
myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions affecting the heart muscles and the outer lining of the heart, respectively.
they occur more often in men compared to women.
patients have shown symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath, or abnormal heartbeats, said moh.
although most cases are mild, with patients recovering without the need for significant intervention and do not suffer long-term effects, "very rarely severe cases may result in damage to the heart.
"increased occurrences of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccinations have been observed overseas in israel and the united states (us) in young men below the age of 25 years.
the risk of this has been estimated to be 1.
6 cases per 100,000 doses for mrna vaccines in the us, which is comparable to the risk of anaphylaxis observed in singapore.
locally, the health sciences authority (hsa) has reported four cases involving young men aged between 18 to 30 years.
moh noted that the incidents occurred at the upper end of the expected range for the age group.
most of the cases were reported within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine.
all of the men have recovered or been discharged well from the hospital.
myocarditis and pericarditis are separate and distinct conditions from heart attacks caused when blood flow to the heart is blocked.
"we have reviewed the currently available international and local data," said moh.
"our assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mrna covid-19 vaccines, i. e. , reduction in covid-19 infections and severe complications even if infected, continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination.
"as a precaution, adolescents and younger men, in particular, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
"during this time, they should seek medical attention promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath, or abnormal heartbeats," advised the expert committee.
/tisgread related: about 2,000 people experienced severe adverse reactions to pfizer, moderna vaccines; should not take second dose: mohabout 2,000 people experienced severe adverse reactions to pfizer, moderna vaccines; should not take second dose: mohfollow us on social mediasend in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg send in your scoops to news@theindependent.
sg
india covid-19 updates: india registered the lowest number of covid cases in 71 days (file)india, witnessing a downward trend in covid cases, reported the lowest daily spike in infections since april 2 with 80,834 new cases in the last 24 hours.
india has so far logged over 2.
93 crore cases of coronavirus.
over 1.
32 lakh people recovered from the deadly disease in the last 24 hours.
india's test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to be on the decline.
for the sixth straight day, the positivity rate remained below the 5 per cent-mark at 4.
25 per cent.
track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
singapore: workers in the security, landscape, and lift and escalator sectors may soon see their salaries increase further under the progressive wage model, with tripartite partners "confident" they can conclude negotiations in the next few months, said manpower minister tan see leng.
at a media briefing about the progressive wage model on thursday (jun 10), mr tan said recommendations for the three sectors were currently in the pipeline and that newly-formedtripartite clusters for food services, retail, andwaste managementwere also making headway.
"the (tripartite workgroup on lower-wage workers) is looking at ways to cover the various occupational groups under progressive wages, and this will benefit low wage workers employed in similar occupations but distributed across the various sectors," he said, adding that the workgroup will share more on the plans soon.
the update comes a day after the government accepted proposals by the tripartite cluster for cleaners (tcc)to increase the wages of cleanerseach year over six years from 2023, under the progressive wage model.
it was the first wage review since the workgroup was launched in october last year to look into the salaries of low-wage workers and to improve their well-being.
senior minister of state for manpower zaqy mohamad, who chairs the workgroup, said the timeline for the roll-out of the wage increases will give employers time to adapt.
"they have many contract obligations that typically run two to three years, so you must also be fair with the industry to adapt because they have committed salaries for existing contracts," he said.
"the six-year schedule also provides service buyers and providers with clarity on wage cost increases so that they can plan for the long term, and cleaning firms are also able to now price in wage increases in the next multi-year contracts that they have with the service buyers," he added.
he gave assurance that cleaners' wages will continue to grow from now to 2023, under an existing agreement that stipulates annual increments of 3 per cent each year.
during the briefing, national trades union congress (ntuc) secretary-general ng chee meng explained the challenges behind implementing the progressive wage model for various sectors.
"this is a very difficult journey .
.
.
it's not so easy as a blanket policy (dictating) that these are the wages, but it gives the ecosystem a runway that is sustainable that would benefit and create a win-win (situation) for both workers and employers," he said.
when asked why it takes a long time for the model to be implemented, mr ng said the model is a more "involved" process that may take a bit more time.
"if you set (wages) too high .
.
.
workers may well be made redundant, loss of jobs, because businesses cannot carry that cost, they will exit, or even if they don't exit, workers may lose their jobs," he added.
"if you set it too low, then it becomes actually a wage ceiling for workers.
if my real productivity deserves s$20, s$25 an hour and we got it quite wrong, as in many other practices of minimum wage when it's set too low, then actually, it becomes a wage ceiling.
this (is) what i mentioned .
.
.
as potential downsides of (a) minimum wage.
"responding to a question about how the wage increases which only apply to singaporeans and permanent residents might push more employers to hire foreigners to lower manpower costs, mr tan said existing measures such as employment quota and qualifying salary requirements are in place.
"so, there will be more initiatives that you can see that would look very .
.
.
comprehensively at this foreign versus local talent and workforce complementarity," added the manpower minister.
pwm vs minimum wagecurrently, the progressive wage model is mandatory for the cleaning, security and landscape industries.
it was designed to raise the salaries of lower-wage workers by upgrading their skills and increasing their productivity.
there have been numerous debates on the merits and effectiveness of the progressive wage model compared with a minimum wage system.
during the briefing, mr zaqy compared singapore's progressive wage model to the minimum wage system implemented in other countries, such as the us and uk.
he said the progressive wage model has brought about sustained wage increases in singapore over almost a decade.
in contrast, the federal minimum wage system implemented in the us has been stuck at us$7.
25 per hour since 2009 due to "political wrangling", he said.
he added that while the uk has increased its minimum wage, the country has also seen a significant increase in zero-hour contracts, where employers are not obliged to provide any minimum working hours and workers do not have to accept any work offered.
"the government is not against minimum wage.
in fact, we have taken some parts of this in our social innovation because we take the best of breed from what we see out there," he said.
"so you see that the bottom rungs of our (progressive wage model) have some elements of minimum wage but we didn't stop there, we created ladders to create career progression.
"businesses, consumers must do their partas the progressive wage model expands to cover more sectors, businesses must continue to transform through automation and job redesign to help uplift the wages of their workers, said dr robert yap, president of the singapore national employers federation (snef).
he added that workers will also have to upskill to stay relevant and ensure career progression.
mr zaqy added that the government will continue to help bear some of the cost increases through salary top-ups such as the workfare income supplement scheme.
this is to ensure that the impact of the cost increases is not solely borne by businesses or consumers.
society must be prepared to do its part too, he said.
"this is really about addressing social inequality .
.
.
as an advanced country and mature country like singapore, this is where we need to take our society forward," he said.
"for us to say .
.
.
we want to care for low-wage workers but not pay them a decent salary, not support them as a society, that cannot stand for too long," he added.
"this is where society needs to extend its support for low wage workers.
we may have to expect to pay a bit more, but i think if we know, deep in our heart that it supports, encourages and it's giving recognition to our low wage workers, our essential workers, for the work that they do.
it is something that we must be prepared to support as a society.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: while racism exists, singapore has made "tremendous progress" in racial harmony over the years, said law and home affairs minister k shanmugam on thursday (jun 10) in an interview with cna938.
his comments follow recent incidents of alleged racism in public.
last week, a viral video emerged showing aman making racist remarkstowards an interracial couple at orchard road.
in another incident last month,a 55-year-old woman was allegedly kickedand subjected to racial slurs by a 30-year-old man while she was brisk walking.
when asked during the interview if singapore's racial harmony is on a knife-edge, mr shanmugam said: "i've always said there is racism in singapore, but we are a better society than most other multi-racial societies that i know of.
"i mean, name me a society where there is no racism, which is multi-racial?
i've felt that we have made tremendous progress.
"he added: "most people accept the norms of a multiracial society and we are making progress.
the direction was positive and direction has been positive.
"mr shanmugam had said last week following the incident at orchard road that he is "not so sure anymore" that singapore is "moving in the right direction" on racial tolerance.
"it's the direction that i'm concerned about," he added on thursday.
"but as of today, i won't say we are at knife-edge.
i think that will be over-dramatising it.
"mr shanmugam also said that people should call out racism and do it sensibly.
"when it's in the public square, i think you should call out, you should frown against it and you should take action where it breaches the law, because it is cancerous, it's divisive and it undermines the values of our society," he added.
on how the law deals with such incidents, mr shanmugam said there is a "fairly strict framework" in singapore, but the country has to go beyond that to maintain racial harmony.
"legal framework is one part of it, but the government and society have to work very hard to maintain harmony.
you can't bring about harmony and racial tolerance and acceptance just by having laws and enforcing them, you need to do much more," he said.
"the laws give the framework, the foundation, they are important, but you got to go beyond that.
and the answer is not every time something happens, you charge," he added.
"when it is serious, investigations are conducted, then the attorney general decides sometimes a warning, sometimes people are charged.
but you are careful in the way you exercise that power.
"although the government plays "an extremely important role" in safeguarding racial and religious harmony, singaporeans have a part to play as well, mr shanmugam said.
"it's not a subtraction from singaporeans to say, 'i'm an indian', 'i'm a chinese', 'i'm a malay', or sub-identities.
those are extremely important.
they give us our cultural ballast," he said.
"but beyond that, we are also singaporeans, and that is a common identity.
we have to emphasise that common identity, even as we recognise, accept, emphasise our individual identities.
we need to have that common vision to say, look, we want to build a system based on justice, equality, meritocracy, and where everyone can feel equal, and everyone can feel protected," he added.
"the government has a huge role in articulating that vision and being fair.
"need for deeper engagementin a facebook post earlier on thursday,president halimah yacob said that while singapore's primary recourse has been the law and that those found guilty have been "rightly punished", this will not stop hate and chauvinism from perpetuating.
"it is agonising to read about the incidents of hatred and chauvinism perpetrated by singaporeans against each other.
such displays are so hurtful because we thought that we had done so much to protect our cohesion until we are shaken from our belief," she said.
"our greatest fear is how such prejudice will affect our young and influence their minds.
we wonder whether these are one-off incidents or reflective of a larger problem.
"mdm halimah called for deeper engagements about why cohesion is important and what it means to be a truly multiracial and multi-religious society.
"we need this, as arguments such as the social media and the current pandemic as contributing factors, may mask the real issues," she said.
"in the meantime, let us start by being kinder to each other.
we can control how we want to respond and do so in a constructive and meaningful way.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
tokyo there is "no change" in japan's position towards taiwan, top government spokesman katsunobu kato said on friday (june 11), two days after prime minister yoshihide suga stoked china's fury by calling taiwan a "country".
mr kato told reporters that "there is no change in japan's basic position of maintaining a non-governmental, practical relationship with taiwan", in line with the 1972 japan-china communique.
in what seems like an accidental slip-up, mr suga said at a nationally televised diet debate on wednesday that australia, new zealand and taiwan are "three countries that have imposed strong curbs on individual rights" amid the covid-19 crisis.
the reference of taiwan as a country (kuni or koku) goes against diplomatic tradition of referring to the island, which beijing regards as a renegade breakaway province, as a region (chi-iki).
beijing has lodged stern representations with tokyo.
on thursday, chinese foreign minister spokesman wang wenbin deplored japan for violating the spirit of the 1972 joint declaration issued when the two countries formalised relations.
according to the communique, japan recognises the people's republic of china government in beijing as the "sole legal" government of china.
it also "fully understands and respects" that taiwan is an "inalienable part" of chinese territory.
mr wang said that mr suga's statement not only "broke japan's solemn promise not to regard taiwan as a country", but also threatened to undermine the diplomatic foundation of sino-japan ties.
these sensitivities come as taiwan has become a political flashpoint amid chinese muscle-flexing in regional waters.
fears are also rising among democratic nations of an expansion in communist influence, with the clampdown on freedoms in hong kong and china's vaccine diplomacy that is said to come with terms attached.
leaders of the group of seven (g-7) advanced economies, including mr suga, who are meeting in britain this weekend, will likely write the taiwan strait into their communique, japanese media have reported.
they will also pledge to donate one billion doses of vaccines to developing countries.
the first mention of taiwan in a joint united states-japan summit statement since 1969 came in april, when us president joe biden and mr suga cited the "importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait".
japan has followed up with similar language in statements with the european union and this week, at a meeting with australian foreign and defence ministers.
this month, japan donated 1.
24 million doses of astrazeneca vaccine to taiwan amid a surge in covid-19 infections there, in a move that china has lambasted as "political theatre".
separately on friday, japan's diet passed a resolution to urge the world health organisation to include taiwan at its general meetings.
foreign minister toshimitsu motegi said the "region's" experience in its covid-19 fight makes its input invaluable to the global community.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
jewel changi airport reopens to the public on jun 14, but passenger terminals remain closed to allow the airport community to adapt to new zoning measures and safety protocols.
singapore: the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and the changi airport group (cag) will set aside s$15 million to help airport workers adjust to enhanced safety measures put in place after more than 100 covid-19 cases were linked to the airport last month.
about 5,000 workers will benefit from the s$15 million, which will be used to provide a monthly special allowance and cater meals for workers for six months, as well as defray the cost of personal protective equipment, they said.
last month changi airport became singapore's largest active covid-19 cluster, with more than 100 cases, with caas and cag saying at the time that preliminary investigations suggested that theinitial transmissioncould have occurred through an airport worker who was "assisting a family from south asia".
subsequently changi airport's passenger terminals, as well as entertainment and retail complex jewel, were closed to the public, while additional covid-19 testing was introduced for arrivals from 'very high-risk' countries and regions.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), caas and cag said there have not been any new covid-19 positive cases involving airport workers since may 20.
"of the 43 airport workers who had tested positive, 42 have been discharged and the remaining worker is recovering in a hospital general ward without oxygen supplementation," they said.
they added that they have been working closely with the health ministry and the airport community to "review and strengthen changi airport's defences against the more transmissible covid-19 variants".
enhanced safety measures have been implemented to protect airport workers, travellers and the public, they said.
"cohorting arrangements for airport workers have been tightened through a zonal system to reduce the risk of cross infection," they said.
"in particular, airport workers in the passenger terminal piers, arrival immigration halls and baggage claim halls who have interactions with arriving and transfer passengers and therefore are at higher risk of exposure to the virus, are now required to remain in their work zone throughout their shift, including during their meal and rest times," they said.
these workers are also required to be in "higher levels" of ppe throughout the duration of their shifts, except for meal and rest times.
deep cleaning and disinfection of changi airport's passenger terminal buildings and jewel changi airport have been completed, while anenhanced segregated zoning systemannounced last month has been implemented, said caas and cag.
"airport workers have been briefed and trained on the new measures and requirements, to allow the new measures and safety protocols to be implemented smoothly," they said, noting there would also be regular reminders, checks and audits on health safety as an "added safeguard".
"the safety of our airport workers remains our top priority.
we are therefore supportive of the tightened measures to ensure they are protected in the course of their work," said national trades union congress deputy secretary-general cham hui fong.
"our unions will continue to work closely with the relevant stakeholders to mitigate any impact on them, and to ensure their wellbeing is taken care of," she added.
jewel to reopen on jun 14jewel, which has been closed to the public since may 13, will reopen on jun 14. changi airport's passenger terminals will remain closed to the public to allow the airport community to adapt to the new zoning measures, which require "significant operational adjustments", said caas and cag.
more details on the reopening of the passenger terminals will be released at a later date, they said.
since may 23, airport workers in higher risk roles have had to take an additional antigen rapid test (art) between their seven-day polymerase chain reaction-based rostered routine tests.
cag and caas said that since jun 3, it has been testing the use of the traciex breathalyser, which allows workers to blow into a disposable breathalyser fitted with a proprietary sensor chip instead of undergoing an art.
traciex was given provisional authorisation by the health sciences authority on may 27.
"the breathalyser will then be inserted into a portable reading device for vibrational spectroscopy analysis, which will be able to tell if a person is infected with covid-19 within two minutes," said cag and caas.
this will allow workers to receive their results faster than with the current art, they said, adding that workers would also experience less discomfort as the test is non-invasive.
"we aim to progressively replace the art for more airport workers with the traciex breathalyser in the coming months.
this will also allow us to step up the frequency of testing so that we can more quickly detect, isolate and treat any potential covid-19 cases in the airport community," they said.
transport minister s iswaran, who visited changi airport on friday, described the new breathalyser test as a "potential game changer" due to its method of administration.
"we will gradually be scaling up the use of this breathalyser to validate its efficacy, and to be able to then scale up its use for a much wider range of workers," he said, noting workers had told him the new test was a welcome alternative to the more invasive pcr and art tests.
reopening travelwhen asked about comments made by south korean authorities that the country planned to expedite travel bubble plans with singapore, mr iswaran said singapore was "engaging in dialogue with many potential partners".
to allow for cross-border travel, key elements such as mutual recognition of vaccinations and testing protocols need to be in place, he said.
meanwhile the enhanced safety measures allow the airport to adapt more quickly to emerging risks, he said, describing these measures as an important part of singapore's "overall posture towards a calibrated and safe reopening of travel".
"once we have those elements in place then, at the appropriate time, when the ambient conditions are there, we can then activate that plan and mobilise the airlines and other partners to facilitate the kind of cross-border travel that we want to achieve.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
former students of ngee ann polytechnic engineering lecturer tan boon lee have accused him of racially and religiously insensitive behaviour in the classroom.
one of them, ms nurul fatimah iskandar, 22, said in an instagram post on wednesday that mr tan had initiated an offensive discussion about islam during lesson time, when she was his student about four years ago.
she told the straits times yesterday: "he opened websites about islam and explained why he didn't agree with certain quranic verses.
"he then singled me out and tried to start a debate on the topic.
it didn't help that i was the only muslim student in class and i sat in the front row.
"asked about ms nurul's allegations, mr tan declined to comment "at the moment" but said he remembers her as a former student.
the polytechnic told the straits times last night that it was aware of the allegations against mr tan and deeply regrets ms nurul's experience.
it added that it has a zero-tolerance approach to any form of misconduct by members of its community.
"our staff members are expected to respect the cultural, ethnic and religious differences when interacting with students and other staff members," a spokesman for the poly said.
second minister for education maliki osman also addressed ms nurul's post, saying he was "shocked and disappointed" to hear about mr tan sharing his "personal and derogatory views on islam".
"there is no place for any anti-ethnic and anti-religious remarks in our education institutions, and even more so from an educator," dr maliki said in a post on facebook last night.
mr tan, 60, is assisting the police with investigations after he was filmed making racist remarks to ice cream store owner dave parkash, 26, and his girlfriend jacqueline ho, 27, a user experience designer, in orchard road last saturday night.
the polytechnic has suspended him from teaching duties and is conducting an internal investigation after a video of the incident surfaced online on sunday.
in its statement last night, the polytechnic added that it would not hesitate to take disciplinary actions against mr tan, including dismissal, if appropriate.
ms nurul, who is now an electrical engineering student at the national university of singapore, said the incident involving mr tan happened in july 2017. she was a second-year electrical engineering student at the polytechnic at the time.
ms nurul said it was tough for her to speak up against her lecturer as she was afraid her scholarship would be at stake if things went badly.
ms nurul finally mustered the courage to send an e-mail to the school about what happened.
she never got a response, she said.
since she put up the post about the incident on instagram, ms nurul said more accounts about mr tan from other students have come to her attention.
one instagram user alleged that mr tan once made disparaging comments about christianity in class, causing outrage among students.
another alleged that he had made her take off her hijab.
national institute of education don jason tan said while it is important for teachers to be able to conduct discussions on difficult issues such as race and religion, they must do so with basic respect.
"the first step is for them to confront their own biases and prejudices," he said.
"what happens in classrooms shape students' values, attitudes and behaviours.
"get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
carbis bay, united kingdom: g7 leaders are on saturday (jun 12) set to agree a joint declaration aimed at preventing another pandemic, as they resume wide-ranging talks at their first in-person summit in almost two years.
the group of leading economies britain, canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the united states will also try to showcase western democratic cohesion against a resurgent china and recalcitrant russia.
they will be joined by the leaders of australia, south africa and south korea, along with india taking part remotely, as the agenda broadens to foreign policy issues and climate change.
the g7 is meeting face to face for the first time since 2019, at a beachside venue in cornwall, southwest england, after the coronavirus led to the cancellation of last year's summit.
the leaders opened the three-day summit friday with expectations of a pledge to donate one billion vaccine doses to poor countries this year and next much too slow to end the crisis now, campaigners said.
us president joe biden arrived with a message of solidarity and resolve in stark contrast to the isolationist stance of his predecessor donald trump.
after the traditional family photo and opening session on "building back better" from covid-19, the leaders spent the evening at a reception hosted by queen elizabeth ii at cornwall's eden project.
a renowned attraction showcasing the world's ecological riches, the site also hosted a g7 meeting with prince charles and 10 international business leaders to discuss ramping up sustainable growth.
the g7 this weekend will also tackle climate change, and safeguarding global biodiversity, to lay the groundwork for the un's pivotal cop26 environmental summit in scotland in november.
the leaders are debating a pledge to protect at least 30 per cent of the world's land and oceans by 2030. on saturday's foreign policy agenda, this year's coup in myanmar and crackdown on pro-democracy supporters in belarus are expected to figure, alongside tensions with russia and china.
most of the leaders will reconvene on monday in brussels for a nato meeting, before biden heads on to his first summit with president vladimir putin in geneva, vowing to deliver a blunt message about russian behaviour.
"i'll tell you (about it) after i've delivered it," biden told reporters friday.
the g7 is expected to finalise the "carbis bay declaration" comprising a series of commitments to prevent a repeat of the devastation wreaked by the coronavirus.
"for the first time today the world's leading democracies have come together to make sure that never again will we be caught unawares," british prime minister boris johnson said in remarks released ahead of the summit's second day.
"that means learning lessons from the last 18 months and doing it differently next time around.
"the declaration will be published sunday alongside the g7's final communique, following a beachside barbecue on saturday night.
the collective steps include slashing the time taken to develop and licence vaccines, treatments and diagnostics for any future disease to under 100 days, while reinforcing global surveillance networks.
the leaders will vow to boost genomic sequencing capacity, and support reforms to strengthen the world health organization (who), according to johnson's government, which like the us wants china to allow new access to who experts to determine how covid-19 first emerged.
who chief tedros adhanom ghebreyesus, criticised in some quarters for being too accommodating of china, welcomed the health pact.
and he said the un agency would examine a british proposal to create a "global pandemic radar" to send early warnings of future outbreaks.
"the world needs a stronger global surveillance system to detect new epidemic and pandemic risks," tedros said.
the g7 leaders are also expected to outline more help for developing nations to build up infrastructure, as a counterpoint to the debt-fuelled spending by china in africa, asia and latin america.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — four antigen rapid test (art) self-test kits will be available from 16 june at guardian, unity, and watsons retail pharmacies, the multi-ministry taskforce (mtf) on covid-19 said on thursday (10 june).
the measure was unveiled by the mtf at a virtual media conference as it announced that singapore will gradually move back to phase 3 (heightened alert) in two steps, with one set of measures taking effect from 14 june and another from 21 june.
more of the self-test kits will be made available at more retail locations progressively.
the self-test kits can produce results in less than 20 minutes, are simple to use and can be self-administered, the ministry of health (moh) said separately in a statement.
to ensure that there are adequate supplies, sales will be initially limited to 10 art kits per person, moh added.
the four kits that have been granted interim authorisation for public sale by the health sciences authority (hsa) are 'abbott panbiotm covid-19 antigen self-test', 'quickvue at-home otc covid-19 test', 'sd biosensor sars-cov-2 antigen self-test nasal', and 'sd biosensor standard q covid-19 ag home test'.
director of medical services kenneth mak told reporters that the art self-test kits complement singapore's overall surveillance strategy.
"these fast and easy-to-use tests allow us to detect infected cases more quickly, in particular among individuals those who do not have acute respiratory infection symptoms, but are concerned that they may have been exposed to covid-19.
"individuals who have a positive result for their art self-test should immediately approach a swab and send home public health preparedness clinic (sash phpc) for a confirmatory polymerase chain reaction (pcr) test.
they are then required to self-isolate until they get a negative pcr test result.
those who test negative on their self-test art should continue to stay vigilant and adhere to prevailing safe management measures.
individuals who have ari symptoms should continue to visit a doctor for a full diagnosis and pcr test instead of relying on an art self-test kit.
hsa said in a separate statement that arts have lower sensitivity than pcr tests and have a higher chance of false negative results.
"incorrect sample preparation or testing process when using the test, or a low viral protein level in the user's nasal sample (e. g.  1-2 days from potential exposure), could also result in a false negative result.
anyone with acute respiratory infection symptoms should consult a doctor," hsa said.
singapore is currently in phase 2 (heightened alert) reopening, which started on 16 may and will end on 13 june.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother stories:singaporean woman, 86, dies from covid-19; linked to ttsh clusterman who wanted to get married in china breached shn to appeal to icagurmit singh, actor in covid-19 jingle, fined $800 for speedingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatibook en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenbeijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made ochina's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosouth korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderssecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore and australia are looking to work closer together to enhance trade and investment in environmentally sustainable goods and services as well as drive down emissions in maritime operations, as part of deepening ties between the two countries.
a new green economy agreement and a public-private partnership to lower emissions in maritime shipping and port operations were part of discussions between prime minister lee hsien loong and his australian counterpart scott morrison yesterday.
the two leaders met at the istana and reaffirmed the excellent state of bilateral relations, the ministry of foreign affairs (mfa) said in a statement.
they also reaffirmed their shared commitment to strengthening the singapore-australia comprehensive strategic partnership (csp) agreement, which the two countries signed in 2015 to deepen cooperation.
they noted the good progress made in the csp over the past year, despite the challenges presented by covid-19.
the agreement's five pillars are economics and trade, defence and foreign affairs, science and innovation, people-to-people, and the digital economy, which was added as a fifth pillar last year.
the mfa said both prime ministers agreed to keep the csp forward-looking by furthering cooperation in emerging areas.
by building upon a memorandum of understanding on low-cost emissions signed last year, both countries will be embarking on a public-private partnership on low-emission maritime and shipping, said mfa.
a joint statement by the two prime ministers yesterday said that this partnership will start off with a combined initial contribution of up to a$30 million (s$30.
8 million), and will see business and government in australia and singapore work together on low-emission fuels and technologies.
"the prime ministers also discussed exploring a broader partnership on a green economy agreement to facilitate trade and investment in environmentally sustainable goods and services," mfa added.
the ministry also said both countries will start discussions on a fintech bridge to enhance cooperation in fintech policy and regulation, which will build upon the high-level digital economy agreement that they made last year.
this fintech bridge will look for opportunities for collaboration on joint innovation projects, as well as facilitate investments and new business opportunities in digital trade and financial services, said the two prime ministers.
on the defence front, pm lee said at a joint news conference with mr morrison that the republic greatly appreciates australia's generous support for the singapore armed forces' training "over many years, in many airbases and camps all over australia".
a new memorandum of understanding (mou) between the health ministries of the two countries was signed yesterday to enhance cooperation on healthcare and health technologies.
the two countries have also agreed to ink an agreement on operational science and technology cooperation to develop and enhance capabilities for homeland security and law enforcement agencies to prevent crime and maintain law and order.
an existing mou between the singapore symphony orchestra and melbourne symphony orchestra will be renewed as well.
both leaders said that in an increasingly uncertain and complex strategic environment, australia and singapore are like-minded partners with a high degree of strategic trust.
they agreed to increase the frequency and complexity of professional exchanges, dialogues and training activities between the two countries.
the two leaders also discussed regional developments yesterday, and both said a strong, cohesive and responsive asean is vital to the region's success and recovery.
agreeing that asean could play an important role in facilitating a peaceful solution to the situation in myanmar, pm lee and mr morrison called for an immediate cessation of violence, the release of all political detainees there, including foreigners, and inclusive dialogue between all parties.
both prime ministers also reaffirmed their shared commitment to maintaining and promoting peace, security and stability in the region, as well as to the peaceful resolution of disputes, including full respect for legal and diplomatic processes, without resorting to the threat or use of force, in accordance with international law.
they underlined australia and singapore's strong support for freedom of navigation, overflight and unimpeded trade in the south china sea.
"they also emphasised the importance of non-militarisation of disputed features and self-restraint in the conduct of activities that would complicate or escalate disputes and affect peace and stability," said the joint statement.
"they urged all claimants to take meaningful steps to ease tensions and build trust, including through dialogue.
"hariz baharudinjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: thesingapore-hong kong air travel bubblewill remain on hold even though the covid-19 situation in singapore has improved, the ministry of transport (mot) said on thursday (jun 10).
authorities on both sides will review the situation in july before deciding on a launch date.
the covid-19 situation in hong kong has remained stable, with very few community cases in recent weeks, the ministry noted.
"both singapore and hong kong remain strongly committed to launching the air travel bubble safely.
we will continue to monitor the public health situation in both places closely," mot said.
both singapore's transport minister s iswaran and hong kong's secretary for commerce and economic development edward yau have maintained "close contact", the ministry said, adding that they agreed that both sides would review the situation in early july, before making a decision on the target launch dates of flights under the air travel bubble.
"an update will be provided at that point," said mot.
the singapore-hong kong air travel bubble was initially scheduled to be launched onnov 22last year, but it was deferred after a rise in covid-19 cases in hong kong.
a rescheduled launch planned formay 26this year was also pushed back due to an increase in unlinked covid-19 community cases in singapore.
under the terms of the agreement, the travel bubble will be suspended for at least 14 days if the seven-day moving average of unlinked local covid-19 cases a day, excluding dormitory resident cases in singapore, is more than five in either singapore or hong kong.
during a press conference by the covid-19 multi-ministry task force on thursday, health minister ong ye kung said he did not think that singapore had met the criteria for the resumption of the air travel bubble.
"and even if we crossed the criteria for resumption .
.
.
we are in a very cautious state," mr ong said in response to a question.
"and so we probably don't want to rush.
it's important that at this state – embers are still there – we want to be quite cautious.
"mr ong said it is, however, important to "get conversations going".
"there's really .
.
.
no harm, and in fact good, to continue to talk to our various partners, to see how we can restore our connections with the world safely.
when the time is right," mr ong said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: two men will be charged in court on friday (jun 11) for their suspected involvement in a series of china officials impersonation scams.
the men, aged 46 and 48, are accused of collecting money from victims of the scam and are believed to have received commission for their involvement, said the singapore police force (spf) on thursday.
the police said they received reports from five victims between jul 18 and 29 last year.
"phone scammers claiming to be from the 'chinese police' had accused the victims of being involved in transnational money-laundering crimes," said spf.
"the victims were believed to have been subsequently misled into handing cash totalling s$1,580,000 to various persons in singapore to prove that their money was not derived from illegal activities.
"police investigations revealed that the two men became involved in the scam after responding to a job listing on facebook which promised s$300 for courier work.
"after being added to a whatsapp chat group and following the instructions by the group's organisers, the duo allegedly began collecting money amounting to s$230,000 from three out of the five victims," spf said.
"the collections were then purportedly handed over to unknown persons.
"both men allegedly received a total of s$15,700 as commission but they have since surrendered the amount during investigations, said the police.
they will be charged for assisting another to retain benefits from criminal conduct under the corruption, drug trafficking and other serious offences (confiscation of benefits) act.
if convicted, they face up to 10 years in prison, a fine of up to s$500,000, or both.
the police advised members of the public to ignore unsolicited calls asking for money to be handed over in relation to supposed criminal investigations.
they also warned against giving out personal information and bank details.
"no local government agency will demand payment through a phone call or other social messaging platforms, demand that you hand over cash to strangers or ask you for your personal banking information such as your internet banking passwords," spf said.
"for foreign residents receiving calls from persons claiming to be police officers or government officials from your home country, please call your embassy/high commission to verify the claims of the caller.
"the police also warned members of the public not to collect money from other individuals on behalf of strangers, especially if they claim to be law enforcement officers.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
washington: the united states and china clashed in rare talks on friday (jun 11) as president joe biden made his international debut at the group of seven (g7) summit, with his administration pressing beijing on covid-19, taiwan and human rights.
secretary of state antony blinken, joining biden at the summit of industrial democracies in england, spoke by telephone with senior chinese official yang jiechi their first talks since a heated in-person encounter in alaska in march.
as biden used his first presidential trip abroad to unveil a massive plan tobuy and distribute 500 million covid-19 vaccine dosesaround the world, blinken renewed us pressure on china over the origins of the pandemic that has killed more than 3.
7 million people.
blinken "stressed the importance of cooperation and transparency regarding the origin of the virus", including allowing world health organization (who) experts back into china, state department spokesman ned price said in a statement.
biden has ordered us intelligence to report back by late august whether covid-19, first detected in late 2019 in the city of wuhan, emerged from an animal source or a laboratory accident.
former president donald trump trotted out the lab-leak theory but was widely dismissed, with many believing he was seeking to deflect criticism over his own handling of the pandemic, but biden has said there was aneed for further studyafter criticising beijing for not giving more access to a who probe.
the laboratory theory has outraged china, which has sought to rebrand itself in the world's eyes not as the country that failed to stop the virus but as a model on how to contain it.
"interests of small circles"yang, a senior politburo member who has long taken a lead in beijing's handling of the united states, renewed denunciations of washington as biden met with leaders from other g7 nations britain, canada, france, germany, italy and japan.
"genuine multilateralism is not pseudo-multilateralism based on the interests of small circles," yang told blinken, according to state television.
"the only genuine multilateralism is that founded on the principles of the charter of the united nations and international law," yang said.
yang also renewed accusations of us hypocrisy on human rights as blinken pressed on what the united states considers the genocide of uyghurs and other mostly muslim turkic people who are incarcerated in camps.
"the united states should resolve its own domestic serious human rights violations, and not use the so-called human rights issues as an excuse to arbitrarily interfere in the internal affairs of other countries," he said.
yang made similar accusations about the united states in front of cameras during the meeting in anchorage, taking aback us officials who expected brief, civil remarks but raising his star power inside china.
concern on taiwanblinken also voiced alarm at china's increasing pressure on taiwan including military flights off its coast.
blinken "called on beijing to cease its pressure campaign against taiwan and peacefully resolve cross-strait issues", the state department statement said.
washington has been increasingly alarmed that china will attempt to use force on taiwan, a self-governing democracy it considers part of its territory, after its sweeping curbs on freedoms in hong kong.
the united states in recent days agreed toreopen trade talks with taiwanand authorised a military plane to bring a delegation of senators who offered covid-19 vaccines.
amid wide bipartisan criticism of china, biden has largely continued the hawkish stance of trump, in substance if not in tone.
the biden administration has described china as a preeminent international challenge and vowed to counter it by shoring up alliances and investing heavily in infrastructure and development at home.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
the humanitarian organisation for migration economics (home) welcomes the news that cleaners who are singaporeans and permanent residents will see wage increments under the progressive wage model (cleaners to see their wages increase over 6 years from 2023, june 8).
however, as cleaning jobs are also performed by migrant workers, the move to increase the pay of cleaners must also include migrant workers, who are excluded from the progressive wage model.
in research that home published last year regarding the working conditions of bangladeshi conservancy workers, we stated that they earn gross monthly wages of between $500 and $800.
we also found that they are severely overworked.
home spoke to more than 30 workers.
many reported working at least 12-hour shifts with little rest, and having to attend to unexpected calls at any time of the day or night.
all the workers home spoke to stated that they had no rest days at all.
they also said it is not uncommon for a worker to be denied public holidays and annual leave for the period of their employment.
the covid-19 pandemic has increased their workload as work-from-home arrangements have generated more waste, and more intense and frequent cleaning is required to disinfect areas with higher footfall.
while the government encourages town councils to go beyond cost considerations in awarding bids to cleaning companies, town councils are still under pressure to be seen as fiscally prudent, and this results in contracts being awarded to companies that pay workers low wages.
a cleaning company we interviewed said the low barriers to entry and competitive market conditions offer little incentive to pay workers more as companies are afraid of being priced out of the industry.
all low-wage workers, regardless of nationality, should receive equal protection.
it is important to include migrant cleaners in the progressive wage model if we wish to deal with depressed wages and poor employment conditions in the sector.
responsible outsourcing can be mainstreamed only when wage inequalities and exploitative working conditions are tackled for all workers, and not just for a segment of them.
when there is an underclass of migrants who are easy to exploit, companies are less willing to improve the wages, benefits and working conditions of its employees, local or foreign.
jaya anil kumarhumanitarian organisation for migration economicsjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the man caught naked on several video clips this week, including while riding a motorcycle, was charged on saturday (june 12).
yeo qi wei, 24, faced one charge of appearing nude in a public place.
he is alleged to have appeared nude at the open space carpark of block 212 lorong 8 toa payoh on june 10 at about 5.
45am.
district judge ronald gwee ordered that yeo be remanded at the institute of mental health for two weeks for psychiatric observation.
the police told the straits times on friday that a man had been arrested and was being investigated for other offences, including public nuisance, performing an obscene act in public, trespass and traffic violations in other separate incidents reported.
interest in the incident followed the circulation of a photo on june 10, which showed a naked man on a motorcycle at a cross junction in eunos.
a video clip of the man also began circulating the same day, showing him riding nude on a motorcycle along the pan island expressway at about 100kmh.
a second clip later surfaced, showing him climbing on top of a car while naked.
the driver of the car could be seen coming out from his vehicle and making a call while looking at the man, who later walked off.
yeo's case is expected to be mentioned again on june 25. if convicted of appearing nude in a public place, he may be jailed for up to three months, or fined up to $2,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a man who was on the run from the law for 20 years was sentenced on friday (june 11) to an additional six months in jail for misleading an immigration officer and for missing a court hearing in 2000. siva kumar ramachandram, 46, fled to malaysia after being convicted here of smuggling illegal immigrants out through the woodlands checkpoint, the corrupt practices investigation bureau (cpib) said on friday.
he had been sentenced to five years in jail and 12 strokes of the cane on sept 24, 1999. but siva fled the country sometime in october 1999, with the help of a friend known only as "boy".
at the woodlands checkpoint, siva, a malaysian, used an unidentified person's passport to cross into malaysia.
he was on court bail at the time, and missed his magistrate's appeal hearing on march 9, 2000, at the high court of singapore.
a warrant for his arrest was issued that day, said cpib.
he was arrested by the cpib on march 4, 2020, with the help of the malaysian anti-corruption commission.
on april 16, 2021, siva was charged with offences under the immigration act and penal code.
he will serve the six-month jail term after completing his initial five-year sentence.
siva was given the five-year sentence after he was found guilty of a conspiracy that involved bribing a cisco officer to allow buses to transport illegal immigrants from singapore into malaysia through the woodlands checkpoint.
the cisco officer was sentenced to one year in jail and fined $2,800 in 1999. cpib said that singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach to corruption.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: a 46-year-old man who had spent more than 20 years on the run for immigration offences he committed has been arrested, said the corrupt practices investigation bureau (cpib) on friday (jun 11).
siva kumar ramachandram, who is malaysian, was arrested by the cpib with the help of the malaysian anti-corruption commission (macc) on mar 4 last year.
on sep 24, 1999, siva was convicted and sentenced to five years' jail and 12 strokes of the cane for engaging in a conspiracy to smuggle illegal immigrants from singapore into malaysia through woodlands checkpoint.
the conspiracy involved bribing a cisco officer to allow buses ferrying the illegal immigrants to pass through the checkpoint without immigration clearance.
the cisco officer was convicted on oct 5, 1999 and was sentenced to 12 months' jail and fined s$2,800 for corruption.
siva later absconded from singapore sometime in 1999, while released on bail pending appeal of his conviction and sentence.
an arrest warrant for him was issued on mar 9, 2000, the date of his appeal hearing, which he failed to turn up for.
cipb investigations revealed that in october 1999, siva left singapore for malaysia in the vehicle of an unknown individual known as "boy".
"boy" had produced a passport belonging to someone else to the immigration officer at woodlands checkpoint.
this led the immigration officer into believing siva was someone else, thus allowing him to leave singapore, said the authorities.
he was arrested on mar 4, 2020 and brought back to singapore.
siva was charged on apr 16 this year with offences punishable under the immigration act and the penal code.
on friday, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six months' jail with effect from the expiry of his existing five-year sentence meted out in 1999, said the bureau.
"the invaluable assistance and strong support by the macc has resulted in siva's arrest on mar 4, 2020.
"cpib is grateful for the close collaboration with the macc on this case to ensure that the offender was brought to justice and there was no escaping the long arm of the law," it said.
the bureau said singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach towards corruption and other criminal activities.
"cpib's mandate is to investigate into any act of corruption in the public and private sectors in singapore, and in the course of doing so, any other offences under any written law," it said.
anyone who is convicted of knowingly producing any false or misleading document under the immigration act can be sentenced to jail for up to two years and be fined up to s$6,000.
anyone who is convicted of failing to appear before a court of justice under the penal code can be sentenced to jail for up to six months and be fined up to s$5,000.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: twelve people are being investigated for alleged illegal gambling activities and breaking of covid-19 safe distancing rules at a home in bukit panjang, said the singapore police force (spf) on friday (jun 11).
the suspects seven men and five women are aged between 21 and 70, the police said in a news release.
officers from jurong police division conducted an operation at about 9pm on thursday at a home along gangsa road.
during the operation, they found the 12 purportedly gathering and engaging in gambling-related activities, said spf.
the suspects will be investigated for non-compliance of safe distancing measures.
under the current phase 2 (heightened alert) restrictions, two distinct visitors per household are allowed daily.
among them, a 55-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man were arrested for allegedly using the unit as a common gaming house.
three other women and another man aged 48 to 70 are being investigated for gaming in a common gaming house.
the police seized cash and gambling-related items, and investigations are ongoing.
anyone found guilty of using a place as a common gaming house may be fined s$5,000 to s$50,000 and jailed for up to three years.
suspects convicted of gaming in a common gaming house face a fine of up to s$5,000, up to six months' imprisonment or both.
spf said it takes "a serious view against all forms of illegal gambling activities and will continue to take tough enforcement action" against such lawbreakers.
it also advised the public not to engage in illegal gambling and to comply with the prevailing safe distancing measures.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
by melissa koenig for dailymail.
com and associated press  published:  21:03 bst, 11 june 2021   |  updated:  01:22 bst, 12 june 2021    266view  commentsa lobster diver was swallowed whole by a hungry humpback whale but lived to tell the tale because the creature didn't like how he tasted, and spat him back out.
michael packard, 56, had been a commercial lobster diver out of provincetown, massachusetts for 40 years and was going on a routine lobster dive off the coast of cape cod last friday morning when he said he 'felt a huge bump and everything went dark.
'at first, he said he thought he had been attacked by a shark, but when he realized he did not feel any sharp teeth and was not in pain, he began to figure out what had happened.
'i realized, oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth .
.
.
and he's trying to swallow me,' packard told wbz-tv following the encounter.
'and i thought to myself ok, this is it i'm finally i'm gonna die.
'packard, who is an experienced diver, started to think about his wife and his 12 and 15 year old sons, and began to struggle inside the beast's mouth until, he said, he saw a light and the whale started shaking his head side-to side.
'i just got thrown in the air and landed in the water,' packard recounted to the cbs affiliate.
'i was free and i just floated there.
i couldn't believe.
.
.
i'm here to tell it. '
he estimates he was in the whale's mouth for about 30 seconds, but continued to breathe because he still had his breathing apparatus in.
michael packard, 56, suffered only minor injuries after being trapped inside a humpback whale's mouth for roughly 30 seconds on friday morning.
experts say being eaten by a humpback whale is extremely rare, with one suggesting the whale made a mistake when it sucked packard in and quickly spat him out (file photo)packard had been a lobster diver for 40 years at the time of the incident and was rescued by a crewmate who called authorities on the shorepackard took to facebook following the incident to thank the provincetown rescue squad for its 'caring and help'packard was rescued by his crewmate josiah mayo who was aboard their boat 'the j n' j.
'mayo watched in shock as the water beside the boat erupted as the whale surfaced and packard flew out of the mammal's mouth.
he plucked packard out of the water, according to the cape cod times, and used his radio to call authorities on the shore.
the provincetown fire department later confirmed that a call came in about a diver who had suffered serious injuries to his legs 'after interacting with a whale.
'at first packard said, he thought he had broken his legs in the incident, but doctors later told he he just had soft tissue damage and bruises, and he was released from a local hospital later that day.
in a following facebook post, packard thanked the provincetown rescue squad for its 'caring and help' he said that when he was stuck inside the whale's mouth his thoughts turned to his wife and his 12 and 15 year old sons experts say it is extremely rare to be swallowed by a humpback whale, peter corkeron, a senior scientist at the new england aquarium estimating there is a one in 1 trillion chance someone would be eaten by a whale.
when a humpback feeds, he said,  'they do what we call gulp feeding, and they an open their mouths up incredibly widely,' which jooke robbins, the director of humpback whales studies at the center for coastal studies, said could limit their forward vision.
'based on what was described, this would have to be a mistake, and an accident on the part of the humpback,' robbins concluded.
'he was just unlucky enough to be in the wrong place at the wrong time,' corkeron conceded.
the humpback likely hoped it would get a mouthful of sand lance fish, which live in the waters off cape cod.
experts say whales are generally placid around humans, and show little aggression towards them.
but they have warned divers to stay at least 100 feet away from the powerful animals at all times, because even an accidental brush with one can be very dangerous as packard discovered.
share what you think
          the comments below have not been moderated.
the views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of mailonline.
by posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual.
do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline?your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual  we will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on mailonline.
to do this we will link your mailonline account with your facebook account.
we'll ask you to confirm this for your first post to facebook.
you can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to facebook.
your details from facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our privacy policy.
published by associated newspapers ltdpart of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group
by yew lun tianbeijing (reuters) china passed a wide-ranging law to counter foreign sanctions on thursday, in an apparent move to legalise its tit-for-tat retaliation against punitive actions taken by foreign countries over issues from human rights to hong kong.
the law, effective immediately, builds upon previous administrative counter-measures against foreign sanctions issued by the chinese foreign and commerce ministries.
it also lays out the scope of china's counter-sanctions.
who's the target?individuals or entities involved in the making or implementation of discriminatory measures against chinese citizens, or interfering with china's internal affairs could be put onto a blacklist, according to the full text of the law published on thursday.
blacklisted individuals could find their relatives, and the organisations of which they are senior managers or have control over placed on the list.
"relevant departments" in the chinese government can decide who to put on or remove from the blacklist.
what happens to those blacklisted?those blacklisted could be denied entry into china or deported from china.
their assets within china can be sealed, seized or frozen.
entities within china could be restricted from engaging in all forms of transactions or cooperation or other activities, potentially limiting the investment activities of blacklisted entities in china.
chinese citizens or organisations can sue in chinese courts those who enforce foreign measures that discriminate against them.
how is this different from the past?while the foreign ministry has previously announced sanctions mainly against individuals including western politicians and scholars, it had not cited a specific law as the legal basis.
it was also not always clear what those sanctions entailed.
although the commerce ministry has announced mechanisms targeted at foreign entities such as a so-called "unreliable entity list", there have been no known instances of companies being put on the list.
the new law combines many features of these administrative orders by the foreign and commerce ministries, such as allowing chinese companies to sue for compensation and denying entry to blacklisted persons.
beijing analysts say the new law makes china's sanctions appear less random, as it spells out who can be blacklisted and what the sanctions would entail.
what do supporters say?state media and experts in china said the new law was a long overdue "legal weapon" needed to deter the west from interfering in china's internal affairs.
all 14 vice-chairpersons of china's legislature who passed the law have been under u. s.  sanctions for passing the national security law last year that critics say has crippled political freedoms in hong kong.
in other measures, the united states issued a ban on cotton and tomato imports from china's western xinjiang region in january, citing human rights violations and the use of forced labour in the region.
wang jiangyu, a law professor at city university of hong kong, said the european union has a law the "blocking statute" to counter u. s.  sanctions, so china should not be faulted for having a similar law.
"the new law is the stick part of the carrot and stick diplomacy.
but it is defensive in nature, not offensive, and will only be used when other countries apply sanctions on us first," said cheng xiaohe, an associate professor of international studies at the renmin university of china.
what do critics say?foreign companies increasingly fear they will be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess, said joerg wuttke, president of european union chamber of commerce.
chinese experts say the law could dampen the climate for foreign investment, but that the chinese government would have calculated this is a price worth paying to safeguard the country's interests.
(reporting by yew lun tian; editing by frances kerry)agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringena hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatidemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hoen elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
turns out the comic books were wrong.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two men will be charged in court on friday (june 11) for their alleged roles in a series of scams that cheated their victims of almost $1.
6 million.
the scams involved people calling and posing as police officers from china, said the singapore police force on thursday.
between july 18 and july 29, 2020, the commercial affairs department received reports from five victims who had fallen prey to scammers pretending to be chinese officials.
phone scammers claiming to be the chinese police had accused the victims of being involved in transnational money-laundering crimes.
the victims were believed to have been subsequently misled into handing over cash totalling $1,580,000 to various people in singapore to prove that their money was not derived from illegal activities.
the men, aged 46 and 48, are alleged to have been involved in the ruse as couriers, and received a combined $15,700 as commission.
they are suspected of collecting $230,000 from three victims, which they handed over to unidentified people.
the men got involved after responding to a job listing on facebook promising $300 for courier work.
they were then added into a whatsapp chat where they received instructions to collect money from the victims.
they surrendered their commission money over to the police during investigations.
the pair were caught after the police received reports from the victims.
the duo will be charged with assisting another to retain benefits from criminal conduct, which carries a penalty of 10 years in jail and/or a fine of up to $500,000.
the police advise members of the public to take the following precautions when they receive unsolicited calls asking them to part with their money:1.  ignore the calls and the caller's instructions.
2.  understand that no local government agency will demand payment through a phone call or social messaging platforms, or demand that they hand over cash to strangers, or ask for personal banking information.
3.  if they are not singaporean, check with their embassy or high commission to verify the call.
4.  call a friend or relative before making any decisions.
"do not be pressured by the caller to act impulsively," added the police.
the police also said that the public should not collect money for strangers, especially if they are claiming to be law enforcement officers.
"such callers are likely to be scammers, and the members of the public who act on their instructions may unwittingly have committed a crime by assisting to launder money from criminal activities," they added.
if they have information related to these scams, or if they have any doubts, the public can call 1800-255-0000 or submit it online at www.
police.
gov.
sg/iwitness, said the police.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore lawsuits brought by 13 bus drivers against transport operator sbs transit over overtime pay involve important questions of law that would affect a larger class of workers in singapore, a high court judge said.
the workers claim in their suits, filed in 2019 and 2020, that they had been made to work without a rest day each week, and were also underpaid for overtime work.
in a written judgment allowing the case to be transferred to the high court, justice audrey lim on thursday (june 10) noted that the employment act provides for mandated rest days and limits to hours of work to protect the rights of employees.
"the question of whether this can be 'overridden' in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services.
.
.
is important, as it affects a larger population of workers in general and not just the immediate plaintiff or parties to the case," justice lim said.
a provision in the act allows an employer to require employees in essential services to work in excess of the prescribed limit of hours or to work on a rest day.
the questions thus involve the interpretation of provisions in the employment act relating to whether a rest day can be scheduled such that an employee can be made to work for 12 consecutive days over a 14-day period, and whether bus drivers fall within the definition of employees providing "essential services".
justice lim said there would be potential ramifications on how such employment contracts are structured in terms of granting days off, computing overtime pay and determining work hours.
on sept 20, 2019, five bus drivers each filed a magistrate's court suit against sbs transit.
subsequently, eight others filed similar suits against sbs.
all 13 plaintiffs are represented by lawyer m.  ravi.
last year, the parties agreed for the suit relating to one plaintiff to be heard as a test case, to save time and money.
this means the court's decision and findings on mr chua qwong meng's suit will be binding on all the plaintiffs.
mr chua claims that sbs had breached the terms of his employment contract, which commenced on april 3, 2017, and the employment act.
he alleged that sbs failed to give him a rest day each week.
he also alleged that he was underpaid for overtime work which includes working on a rest day, for working beyond the prescribed hours and for working on a public holiday.
sbs, which is represented by senior counsel davinder singh, denies his claims.
it asserts that it has complied with its contractual obligations and the laws, rules or regulations pertaining to working hours, overtime pay and rest days.
in particular, the law provides that an employee providing "essential services" may be required to exceed the prescribed work hours, and to work on a rest day.
in march, mr chua filed an application to transfer the test case from the magistrate's court to the high court.
mr ravi argued that the case should be transferred to the high court, as it involves an important question of law that has the potential to affect all classes of employees in singapore.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore singapore and australia will work towards putting in place an air travel bubble between the two countries, their prime ministers said on thursday (june 10), after more than a year of travel disruption caused by the pandemic.
"we discussed how two-way travel between singapore and australia can eventually resume, in a safe and calibrated manner, when both sides are ready," singapore leader lee hsien loong told a joint news conference with visiting australian counterpart scott morrison.
singapore had in march said the two nations were discussing plans for quarantine-free travel.
both singapore and australia have avoided the severe coronavirus outbreaks suffered by many counties, with total cases at just over 62,000 and 30,000 respectively.
lee said infrastructure and processes for resuming travel needed to be put in place, starting with mutual recognition of health and vaccination certificates.
"when all preparations are ready, then we can start small with an air travel bubble to build confidence on both sides," he said.
[[nid:526360]]morrison is the first foreign leader to make an official visit to the city-state since the start of the covid-19 pandemic last year.
he stopped in singapore on his way to britain for the g7 leaders' summit.
the leaders' discussions also included a potential fintech bridge and exploration of a green economy agreement.
morrison said he welcomed the countries working together to put the systems in place to enable a bubble to emerge between them.
however, he said: "there is still some time before we reach that milestone. "
supply lines is a daily newsletter that tracks trade and supply chains disrupted by the pandemic.
sign up here.
delays from congestion at southern chinese ports triggered by fresh covid-19 outbreaks are rippling through global supply chains, threatening to inflate costs and exacerbate disruptions.
a cargo vessel operated by cosco shipping lines co.  will skip a scheduled port stop in singapore this month because of delays in china, according to alliance partner ocean network express holdings ltd.  one of cma cgm's vessels heading to china in july will also not call at the southeast asia trans-shipment hub.
"the delays have already resulted in pressurizing soaring shipping prices within china due to a lack of containers and increased export demand," said josh brazil, vice president of marketing at project44, a supply-chain intelligence firm.
"these high shipping costs are just one factor that may contribute to an additional looming threat to global inflation.
"ship waiting times in singapore are up from a year earliersource: project44a virus outbreak at yantian in shenzhen has already inflated spot freight rates globally, with drewry's world container index increasing 10% in the past three weeks, said simon heaney, senior manager of container research at drewry shipping consultants ltd. "it feels inevitable that rates will climb higher as we head into the third-quarter peak season," he said.
"both importers and exporters will suffer if delays and waiting times extend.
"the disruption is causing further pain for global shippers already struggling with interruptions to supply chains from the pandemic, and the ever given's grounding in the suez canal earlier this year.
trans-shipment dwell times in singapore are at about eight to nine days now, up from roughly five days a year ago, according to estimates from project44.
vessel schedules and carrier service levels have been disrupted by delays at yantian port, and congestion has spilled over to the nearby shekou and nansha terminals, psa singapore said in an emailed response to queries.
"we expect vessel arrivals in singapore to be affected as well.
"however, container vessels calling at psa singapore's terminal aren't facing longer wait times as a result of the delays in yantian yet, the container operator said.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a local company is being investigated for manufacturing surgical masks here without a licence, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
this is the first time a firm is suspected of that action.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent, with the masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
a total of 33 cartons, each containing about 2,500 masks, were seized.
under the health products act, firms are required to have a licence from hsa to manufacture surgical masks.
vision empire international was also suspected to have imported surgical masks from overseas before repackaging, rebranding and reselling them without having a licence to do so.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
they were sold on local e-commerce platforms for between $10 and $22 per box of 50 masks, according to preliminary investigations.
consumers who have made purchases are advised to stop using them immediately, hsa said.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
photo: health sciences authority 
it added that these listings have been removed with the assistance of the platform administrators, and vision empire international has been directed to recall the products.
investigations are ongoing, the authority said.
manufacturers and repackers of surgical masks are licensed by hsa to ensure good quality and safety for use.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment, with the produced masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
photo: health sciences authority 

the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent.
photo: health sciences authority 
in its release, the authority said surgical masks from unlicensed facilities have not been verified to meet the standards of quality, filtration capability and breathability.
"sub-standard masks may not provide the desirable level of protection to the wearer," it added, noting that masks made, repackaged and/or stored in unsanitary conditions could be contaminated.
"wearing such masks may increase the users' risk of developing skin irritation, respiratory symptoms or infections," hsa said.
it will take strong enforcement action against those who illegally manufacture and/or supply masks.
those who do so could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for up to two years or fined up to $50,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
following the latest announcement from the singapore government, dream cruises is pleased to announce that effective from june 14, 2021, the world dream will resume operating at the permitted 50 percent passenger capacity where guests from different households may now enjoy the option of traveling in a group size of up to five.
additionally, from june 21 onwards, guests may indulge in a feast for the palates and eyes where they may explore and enjoy dining in at over 35 f&b concepts around the ship including asian, international and halal-certified cuisine and enjoy additional live performances including singing, magic shows and ballroom dancing by our international performers.
with the well-being of its guests and crew its number one priority, dream cruises maintains the highest standards in safety with comprehensive precautionary measures in place.
since the restart of cruise operations in november 2020, world dream has enjoyed over seven months of covid-19 incident-free sailings in singapore and has received tremendous positive feedback on social media from guests on their experiences onboard the ship.
"dream cruises would like to thank the people of singapore who have continued to support world dream even during this period of stricter health guidelines and safety precautions.
despite the heightened health measures of the previous month, world dream has enjoyed robust sales in june and we are seeing limited availability of cruises in july," said michael goh, president of dream cruises.
"with the diligence of our crew to provide the safest environment for our guests onboard, world dream has extended its proven track record as a worry-free vacation option for singaporeans.
""not only are we excited to welcome a higher capacity of guests up to 50% aboard world dream for a super summer seacation, we are also excited to introduce our unique japanese-themed cruise experience from june 20 until sept.  18.  this includes the world's first lavender fields of hokkaido and torii gates of kyoto at sea, complemented by a variety of fun-filled japanese-related activities and cuisine ideal for vacationers and families, especially during the present school holidays," he added.
as part of the unique japanese themed cruises on world dream from june 20 to sept.  18, guests can begin their wonderful journey aboard by strolling through the stunning and breathtaking torii tunnel surrounded by pink sakura trees, as well as a dreamy lavender field specially created and inspired by popular destinations like hokkaido in japan.
guests will also be able to enjoy all things japanese, including lavender sachet and crepe paper making workshops, relaxing with a lavender spa treatment or personally experiencing traditional geisha culture from make-up demonstrations to hair ornament tutorials, japanese parasol dance classes, as well as favorite and popular japanese cuisine and so much more.
"we had launched a series of successful thematic cruises centered around the asia pacific starting with the rhythm of korea and amazing thailandthematic cruises; and soon guests can discover the wonders of japan on world dream.
guests can look forward to more amazing and global thematic cruises towards year-end including the markets of the world and nordic christmas thematic sailings later this year," noted goh.
get the latest breaking cruise news.
sign up.
101 ships | 209,402 berths | $61 billion | viewhighlights:market overview40+ new ships2021-2027first to recovernew playersfull coverageorder todayhighlights:entire industrysupply dataall companies400 pagesdigital access2027 outlookorder today
the high court on thursday (10 june) gave permission to 13 sbs transit bus drivers to transfer their case from the state courts to the high court, based on important questions of law or public importance regarding the interpretation of certain employment act (ea) provisions relevant to their case.
in the landmark decision, justice audrey lim said in a written judgement that the issues raised by the drivers met the first ground concerning important questions of law under section 54b of the state courts act (sca).
an important question of law, as viewed within the ambit of section 54b of the sca, should concern "more than the immediate interests of the parties".
it should "be of some public importance, or a point of law which would affect other cases", she added.
however, such a question does not have to be "a difficult or complex one, although it may be so in many instances", said the judge.
in the case of the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, questions of law that were raised were brought up in relation to the following ea provisions, among others:justice lim found that the above questions of law affect not only the 13 sbs transit bus drivers, but also "a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector who may potentially fall within the definition of employees" under part iii of the criminal law (temporary provisions) act (cla).
part iii of the cla encompasses employees "in any industrial undertaking essential to the economy of singapore or any of the essential services" listed under the provision, pursuant to section 38(2)(f) of the ea.
the ea's provisions on mandated rest days and limits to hours of work, among others, serve as safeguards against the exploitation of the rights of employees, justice lim noted.
"the question of whether this can be "overridden" in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services, which on its face may not look like a difficult question, is important as it affects a larger population of workers in general and not just the immediate plaintiff or parties to the case," she reasoned.
such a question, the judge elaborated, would have "potential ramifications on how such contracts are structured in terms of granting off days, computing overtime pay and determining work hours".
"this however, is not to be taken to mean that in every case in which a provision of the ea is engaged that it would thus constitute an important question of law," said justice lim.
justice lim also touched on the issue of one of the drivers, chua qwong meng's action of urging his case to be made a 'test case'.
while the sca does not provide a definition of a 'test case', the judge noted that both sbs transit and the drivers accept the definitions in black's law dictionary, which state that a 'test case' is:1.  a lawsuit brought to establish an important legal principle or right.
such an action is frequently brought by the parties' mutual consent on agreed facts – when that is so, a test case is also sometimes termed amicable action or amicable suit; or2.
an action selected from several suits that are based on the same facts and evidence, raise the same question of law, and have a common plaintiff or a common defendant.
sometimes, when all parties agree, the court orders a consolidation and all parties are bound by the decision in the test case.
– also termed test action.
in the present case, the action brought by the sbs transit drivers to transfer the suit falls within the definition of a "test case", as it fits the second definition stated above, said justice lim.
she also rejected sbs transit's submission that a test case should, on top of the second definition above, include case management "or other concerns which would make the matter unsuitable for determination by the state courts".
referencing the australian case cited by sbs transit, justice lim said that unlike the relevant australian provisions that contain guidelines on the federal magistrates court's discretion to transfer proceedings to a higher court, there are no such requirements in section 54b(1) of the sca in singapore.
"i add that such matters may, however, constitute relevant considerations under the second stage of the inquiry pertaining to the exercise of the court's discretion whether to transfer even if one of the grounds in s. 54b(1) is made out," she added.
human rights lawyer mr ravi of k.  k.  cheng law llc, who represents the drivers, dubbed the decision a "ground-breaking" one, as the high court "acknowledged that there are important questions of law of public importance centring around the interpretation of provisions employment act".
such questions, he said, "affect a larger class of employees and workers in general, and would have potential ramifications on how employment contracts are structured in terms of granting off days, computing overtime pay and determining work hours".
mr ravi also noted that he has decided to act for the drivers on a pro bono basis as they were "not able to keep up with their installment payments" for the "small fee" he had charged them.
mr ravi's team comprises himself, as well as his knowledge manager guo rendi, senior law researcher gabriel rafferty, and paralegal sankari loganathan.
"at the same time during the pandemic came in more pro bono death penalty cases that needed urgent attention and sankari ably handled the families and distraught mothers with her kind demeanour," he said.
"on the sbs case , my entire team were and are committed to sacrificing the extra hours which has now paved way for the determination of the ambit of certain provisions of the employment act, like the meaning of" rest days"," overtime" etc.
this case will effectively also determine the rights of about 6000 sbs drivers in singapore," mr ravi added.
sbs transit is represented by a team of five lawyers from davinder singh chambers, led by senior counsel davinder singh.
on 3 mar last year, five bus drivers argued that by failing to compensate its bus drivers at the basic hourly rate of pay for their waiting time between shifts, sbs transit had breached an implied term stated in their service agreement.
the lawsuit arose after the two parties had failed to reach a settlement in their final mediation session between the first tranche of suits as reported in feb last year.
in a statement of claim filed in the state courts that month, the bus drivers alleged that the company has breached several provisions under the ea — the statutory legislation upon which the terms and conditions pertaining to their working hours and overtime were based on.
the bus drivers claimed that sbs transit had failed to compensate them at the basic hourly rate of pay "for the period between 4 a. m.  to 5 a. m.  on the morning and split shifts" in which the drivers are "engaged to be waiting", and "between 9 a. m.  and 1 p. m.  on the split shift".
sbs transit, they added, had also failed to abide by clause 24(9) of the service agreement by not compensating them the agreed allowance of $18 for work done on the night shift.
the company, they alleged, had also breached section 36(1) of the ea by failing to provide on a roster a weekly rest day.
in addition, the company had violated section 37(3)(b) and section 37(3)(c) of the ea by not paying them "the statutorily prescribed rate" of a sum at the basic rate of pay for two days' worth of work, the bus drivers argued.
by imposing a "built-in overtime" that resulted in the bus drivers working for longer than the statutorily prescribed daily work period of eight hours as well as 44 hours per week, sbs transit had also breached section 38(1) of the ea, according to the bus drivers.
other breaches under the ea allegedly made by sbs transit, as claimed by the bus drivers, include compensating them at the normal hourly rate of pay — instead of the statutorily prescribed rate of an extra day's salary at the basic rate of pay for one day's work, in addition to the gross rate of pay for that day — for work done on public holidays.
the five additional bus drivers bring the total number of bus drivers currently taking legal action against sbs transit to 13.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
singapore: member of parliament (mp) melvin yong has been elected president of the consumer association of singapore (case), the association said on friday (jun 11).
mr yong, who is mp for the radin mas single member constituency, succeeds mr lim biow chuan, who had helmed case since 2012. in a media release, case executive director lee siow hwee said mr yong was elected at its 48th annual general meeting on friday, where the new central committee was also elected or appointed into office.
mr yong, 49, is assistant secretary-general of the national trades union congress (ntuc) and executive secretary of the national transport workers' union (ntwu).
he was first elected to the case central committee in june 2018 and was appointed the role of vice-president in november 2019. as chairperson of case's consumer empowerment taskforce, he oversaw two projects that "empower consumers to make informed purchasing decisions".
one of the projects, the price kaki app, gives consumers easy access to in-store retail prices and promotions of common household items, groceries, and hawker food, according to case.
since its launch in september 2019, it has been downloaded more than 72,000 times.
the other project is fuel kaki, a website that gives consumers access to timely information on pump prices and promotions for effective comparison, said case.
since its launch in january 2020, there have been an average of 25,000 visitors a month to the website.
outgoing president mr lim was first elected case president on jun 23, 2012.  he served as vice-president from 2006 to 2012.
"under mr lim's leadership, case took firm and decisive steps to protect consumers by publicising and flagging out errant businesses and unfair practices to warn and alert consumers," said the association.
since 2012, it has issued several advisories against businesses in the beauty, motorcar, home renovation and furniture industries, "where consumers tend to purchase big-ticket items".
case also went after "recalcitrant" businesses and signed voluntary compliance agreements with 22 businesses who undertook to cease their unfair practices and compensate affected consumers, it added.
during mr lim's tenure, case said it obtained injunctions against firms engaging in unfair practices and worked closely with the competition and consumer commission of singapore to protect consumers.
mr lim led case's efforts to promote fair trading and ethical business practices among businesses and industries to boost consumer confidence, the association added.
through its arm casetrust, case has launched joint accreditation schemes with industry associations, with 771 entities accredited as at may 31. mr lim also worked with the ministry of trade and industry to advocate for the enactment of the lemon law provisions under the consumer protection (fair trading) act before it took effect in september 2012, with case holding outreach events to educate consumers and businesses on the law.
mr yong thanked mr lim and the outgoing central committee members for their contributions.
he said: "as case commemorates its 50th anniversary this year, it is timely that we take stock of our achievements and consider how we can continue to be relevant and respond to the needs of consumers.
"i will work closely with the new central committee, management and staff to look into how we can better protect and empower consumers in this new digital age.
"it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a cyclist who punched a lorry driver after the latter confronted him with a flask on the road was fined $5,600 on thursday (10 june).
jeffery todd martin, a 57-year-old canadian, was caught in a widely shared video punching lorry driver zhang ping, who fell along jalan eunos.
martin pleaded guilty to one count of causing hurt to zhang, a 34-year-old chinese national, and one count of riding his bicycle in a disorderly manner without regard to safety of others.
zhang was dealt with separately, according to court documents, which did not state his punishment.
martin, a singapore permanent resident, was cycling ahead of zhang on the extreme left lane along jalan eunos on 24 february 2019.  zhang caught up with martin and overtook him from the right.
at about 10.
23am, as zhang was passing jalan awang, martin overtook him from the right side and cut in front.
martin turned around and pointed at zhang as he overtook him.
he continued cycling directly in front of zhang and stopped in the middle of the lane.
this forced zhang to stop his lorry despite the moving traffic.
martin alighted from his bicycle as zhang turned his lorry right.
he hit zhang's driver window and shouted vulgarities.
the canadian also shouted at zhang through the passenger window, prompting zhang to make a sharp left turn with his lorry towards martin.
the latter picked up his bicycle and took a few steps backwards to avoid the lorry.
martin placed his bicycle at a nearby grass patch while zhang alighted from his lorry and followed martin with an orange water flask in hand.
zhang stood in front of martin and gesticulated in the direction of his lorry, but without warning, martin punched the right side of zhang's mouth.
the force caused zhang to fall backwards on the road of jalan eunos.
martin then retrieved his bicycle and continued cycling along jalan eunos in the direction of still road.
a resident living in the vicinity attended to zhang, who moved to sit on the pavement as he felt dizzy.
zhang was later found to have superficial facial lacerations.
his medical expenses cost $126, which zhang's employer bore.
martin paid full compensation to zhang's employer on 21 april.
the acts were captured on zhang's in-car camera and by an eyewitness who recorded a video.
martin had previously fractured his collarbone in a previous incident and thus felt aggrieved when zhang drove close to him, said martin's lawyer suppiah thangaveloo.
the lawyer highlighted three instances when zhang came close to hitting martin, including when zhang reversed against martin, and his sudden swing to the left.
thangaveloo pointed out that his client did not actually confront zhang any further and took his bicycle to walk off, but zhang confronted him with a flask.
martin reacted instinctively with a punch before moving off, said the lawyer, who asked for a fine of between $3,000 and $4,000.
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother singapore stories:validity of overseas malaysians' passports expiring in 2021 extended by 2 years for freetwo of four new covid cases in singapore are in communitypet shop manager who fought with sda fined, sda's case pendingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
hæv uden gebyrer med bank norwegian-kortet, og vælg selv mellem cashpoints eller cashback.
læs mere her.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
*tilbuddet gælder til og med søndag den 13.  juni 2021.  gælder ikke deodoranter, i forvejen nedsatte varer, fast lav pris og gaveæsker.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
tokyo [japan], june 11 (ani): japanese prime minister yoshihide suga referred to taiwan as a country, drawing a sharp reaction from beijing which regards the self-ruled island as its 'inalienable part'.
in his first one-on-one parliamentary debate with opposition leaders wednesday, suga, naming australia, new zealand and taiwan, said, "such three countries have been imposing strong restrictions on privacy rights" to curb the novel coronavirus outbreak, kyodo news reported.
self-governed taiwan is usually called a "region" in japan.
beijing claims full sovereignty over taiwan, a democracy of almost 24 million people located off the southeastern coast of mainland china, despite the fact that the two sides have been governed separately for more than seven decades.
taipei, on the other hand, has countered the chinese aggression by increasing strategic ties with democracies including the us, which has been repeatedly opposed by beijing.
china has threatened that "taiwan's independence" means war.
suga's reference came as tokyo and beijing have already been at odds over several issues, including a territorial dispute in the east china sea and the crackdown on hong kong.
"china expresses strong dissatisfaction with japan's erroneous remarks and has lodged a solemn protest against japan," foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin told reporters in beijing on thursday.
"there is only one china in the world," wang said, urging japan to become more cautious in words and deeds on taiwan affairs and to avoid sending wrong signals to the island's independence forces.
suga's government has been strengthening its commitment to democratic taiwan.
recently, japan donated over 1.
2 million covid-19 doses to taiwan, as the island faces a spike in covid-19 cases.
china has also lambasted japan for donating vaccines, labelling such a move as a "political performance".
at his summit in washington in april, suga with us president joe biden acknowledged "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait. "
it marked the first time in 52 years that japanese and u. s.  leaders have mentioned taiwan in a joint statement.
(ani)kolkata, jun 10 (pti) a day after actor-mp nusrat jahan claimed that her marriage in turkey with businessman nikhil jain in 2019 is not valid under indian laws, her estranged husband alleged that she had avoided always his requests to get the marriage registered.
the fact that the congress doesn't have an ideology that binds its organisation together has made matters worse.
oplev den storsælgende niro og kør på strøm til hverdagislamabad [pakistan], june 11 (ani): united states, china along with several other countries have declined to accept mangoes that pakistan had dispatched to heads of over 32 countries as part of its "mango diplomacy" initiative.
new delhi [india], june 11 (ani): a group of public health experts, including doctors from aiims and members from the national task force on covid-19, has recommended that there is no need to vaccinate people who had documented covid-19 infection and underlined that mass, indiscriminate, and incomplete vaccination can also trigger the emergence of mutant strains.
earlier in the day, the bjp staged a protest in the islands seeking action against sulthana who hails from chetiath island in lakshadweep.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
the traditional hindu red dot on the forehead was seen on several pet dogs, who were melting the hearts of many viewers.
adhikari said that he is willing to work jointly with the state government as a leader of the oppositionthe picture went viral in 2016 as well with the same claim that the mla's car was displaying the flag of pakistan.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
given the variety of options, choosing the right phone for under rs 50,000 this month is going to be a lot tougher for buyers.
the two delhi police constables have been asked to respond to the notice within 15 days.
malda (west bengal) [india], june 11 (ani): the chinese national who was intercepted by security forces in west bengal's malda district had taken around 1,300 indian sims to china using fake documents, said border security force (bsf) on friday.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
mukul roy also hinted at the return of other tmc-turncoats into the party.
as per sources, prashant kishor will be meeting every leader who extended their support to mamata banerjee and mk stalin.
oneplus nord ce 5g is equipped with a 4,500 mah battery that comes with support for 30t plus ultra-fast warp charge technology.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersnew delhi [india], june 11 (ani): the southwest monsoon advanced further into parts of north arabian sea, gujarat, madhya pradesh and chhattisgarh, the india meteorological department (imd) said on friday.
the senior citizen has claimed that metal objects are easily getting stuck on his body parts after taking the second dose of the covid vaccine.
the study further found that the desirable herd immunity which can break the chain of virus, can only be achieved by mass vaccination and not through the natural course of transmission of infection.
der findes alternativer til at betale negative renter.
vi guider dig til tre investeringsmuligheder, så du kan investere dig fra negative renter.
pakistan may end up enjoying 'strategic space' in afghanistan — a potential return to the pre-9/11 situation.
despite new laws to combat the problem, a rape is reported every 15 minutes, leaving victims and families crying out for justice an activist holds a cut-out of india's prime minister, narendra modi, at a protest over another gang-rape and murder of a young woman in uttar pradesh state last year.
photograph: indranil mukherjee/afp/getty it was a historic day for women in india.
mamata banerjee and her party won a spectacular election victory in west bengal, defeating the hindu nationalist bharatimumbai (maharashtra) [india], june 10 (ani): maharashtra government on thursday announced compensation of 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased in the collapse of a residential structure in new collector compound, malad west of mumbai late on wednesday night.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore employers here have no legal power to force staff members to disclose their covid-19 vaccination status or demand that they get inoculated.
experts and employers noted that while vaccination is strongly encouraged in singapore, it remains voluntary, although there are several ways people can be encouraged to get a jab.
these will come more into focus as singapore begins rolling out covid-19 vaccinations to the wider population, with bookings open to singaporeans aged 12 to 39 from friday (june 11).
singapore human resources institute (shri) president low peck kem told the straits times that unless there is a business need, employers should not compel staff to disclose if they have had a jab or take punitive action against those who do not get inoculated or refuse to update their vaccination status.
"even if there is a strong business need, such as needing to know in order to determine if the employee can travel for business or to deploy to higher-risk front-line facing roles, do explain clearly why the company needs to know the status and generally, most employees will comply," she said.
institute for human resource professionals (ihrp) chief executive mayank parekh said that bosses should not use non-vaccination as a reason to terminate employment as there could be medical reasons for why a staff member did not get a shot.
mr tan wei ming, senior associate at law firm cms holborn asia, said that if employers want to keep records on vaccinated employees that contain personal data such as names, they must do so in accordance with the personal data protection act and other applicable data protection laws.
"for these reasons, companies in singapore are unlikely to make their employees declare their vaccination status at this juncture," he added.
wongpartnership joint head of employment practice jenny tsin said staff members should not face discrimination arising from their vaccination status, given that its voluntary.
however, there could be circumstances that warrant a different approach, such as for jobs involving higher risk of exposure to covid-19, she added.
in this instance, it could be more justified to limit return to the workplace to only vaccinated employees.
investment bank goldman sachs recently ordered its employees in the united states to report their covid-19 vaccination status as part of their plans to return to the office, afp reported on thursday.
st understands that goldman sachs is not requiring staff here to report their vaccination status, and that most are still working from home.
while professional services firm ey strongly encourages its eligible staff to get vaccinated, it does not require them to declare their status given that immunisation is not mandatory, said the singapore and brunei managing partner max loh.
uob human resources head dean tong said the bank has been encouraging staff in critical roles to get vaccinated since the government announced its roll-out to essential workers in the financial sector in march.
st understands that uob does not track the vaccination status of employees.
meanwhile, sembcorp industries has introduced an app that provides voluntary updates on a person's vaccination status.
the app, which was developed in-house, is also used to obtain online approval for essential facility visits.
an amazon spokesman said that the company's employees and associates are generally not required to declare their vaccination status, except for staff members who are travelling to singapore from overseas.
the firm also provides a cash benefit to front-line employees and associates who are paid by the hour when they get their vaccination off-site.
shri's ms low and mr parekh from ihrp said employers can encourage immunisation by communicating the benefits to their staff as well as incentivising vaccination through means such as time off after getting the jabs and giving workers a care package.
mr samir bedi, asean workforce advisory leader at ey, noted that it would not be surprising to see employers including vaccination as a pre-requisite in job descriptions in future, particularly for front-line positions that require face-to-face interactions.
"this not only protects employees and their families, but also ensures the public's safety.
employees who travel for work may also need to comply with pre-travel vaccination travel regulations," he said.
but companies must remain inclusive and consider the needs of individuals who may not be able to get vaccinated due to health reasons, mr bedi said.
he added: "this requires employers to continue with precautionary safe workplace measures while ensuring equal career opportunities for all.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore a local company is being investigated for manufacturing surgical masks here without a licence, the health sciences authority (hsa) said on friday (june 11).
this is the first time a firm is suspected of that action.
the manufacturing was observed taking place in an unhygienic and makeshift environment at vision empire international's facility in ubi crescent, with the masks placed in carton boxes and left out in the open.
a total of 33 cartons, each containing about 2,500 masks, were seized.
under the health products act, firms are required to have a licence from hsa to manufacture surgical masks.
vision empire international was also suspected to have imported surgical masks from overseas before repackaging, rebranding and reselling them without having a licence to do so.
both manufactured and repackaged masks were sold under the brand vision empire healthcare.
they were sold on local e-commerce platforms for between $10 and $22 per box of 50 masks, according to preliminary investigations.
consumers who have made purchases are advised to stop using them immediately, hsa said.
it added that these listings have been removed with the assistance of the platform administrators, and vision empire international has been directed to recall the products.
investigations are ongoing, the authority said.
manufacturers and repackers of surgical masks are licensed by hsa to ensure good quality and safety for use.
in its release, the authority said surgical masks from unlicensed facilities have not been verified to meet the standards of quality, filtration capability and breathability.
[[nid:487670]]"sub-standard masks may not provide the desirable level of protection to the wearer," it added, noting that masks made, repackaged and/or stored in unsanitary conditions could be contaminated.
"wearing such masks may increase the users' risk of developing skin irritation, respiratory symptoms or infections," hsa said.
it will take strong enforcement action against those who illegally manufacture and/or supply masks.
those who do so could be prosecuted and, if convicted, jailed for up to two years or fined up to $50,000, or both.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a thousand front-line workers at changi airport will receive ez-link cards with a stored value of $50 as a gift next month.
the move to help with their transport costs is the result of a ground-up initiative by about 70 civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) officers who wanted to show their appreciation for the workers.
calling themselves friends for aviation (ffa), the group of officers said on saturday (june 12) that cleaners, trolley and baggage handlers will be among the workers to benefit.
ffa said that some of these workers now needed to travel more often for their routine covid-19 testing, following stepped-up measures at the airport last month to guard against another cluster of covid-19 cases emerging.
a total of 43 workers at changi tested positive for covid-19 last month.
this resulted in the closure of the terminal buildings to the public for an initial two weeks.
the closure has now been extended indefinitely to allow the airport community to adjust to new safety measures.
ffa's founder, ms angela ng, who works as an aviation policy officer at caas, said the covid-19 outbreak at changi has added to the challenges in the aviation sector, which has been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic.
"so everybody needs some encouragement, especially our front-liners who don't have the opportunity to work from home to stay safe," she said.
"their jobs and livelihoods are tied to what they do at the front line.
"ffa said it has pooled together $25,000 to fund the ez-link card distribution.
the remaining $25,000 needed will come from temasek trust's oscar @ sg fund, which has agreed to match ffa's contribution on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
caas director-general designate han kok juan said that the initiative complements the $15 million fund that the authority and changi airport group had set aside to help aviation workers.
he praised the initiative as "a great example of the strong community spirit" at changi airport.
members of the public who want to show support to aviation front-liners can submit messages of appreciation and encouragement by june 25.  the messages will be printed and given out together with the ez-link cards.
submission details can be found on the friends for aviation instagram page.
a post shared by friends for aviation (@friendsforaviation)join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
when you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
our privacy notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
you can unsubscribe at any time.
michael packard, 56, was on his second dive of the day looking for lobsters in cape code, a peninsula in the us state of massachusetts, on the southeast coast.
his vessel "ja'n j" was sitting just off popular herring cove beach alongside a fleet of other boats fishing for striped bass.
the method behind commercial lobster diving is collecting lobsters from the sandy bottom.
and, 45ft (14 metres) deep, is where the father-of-two had his terrifying encounter with the humpback whale.
he told cape cod times: "all of a sudden, i felt this huge shove and the next thing i knew it was completely black.
"i could sense i was moving, and i could feel the whale squeezing with the muscles in his mouth. "
at first, mr packard thought he had been swallowed by a great white shark.
but he could not feel any teeth and did not notice any serious injuries.
it was then that he realised he was inside a whale.
he added: "i was completely inside; it was completely black.
i thought to myself, 'there's no way i'm getting out of here.
i'm done, i'm dead.
'"all i could think of was my boys — they're 12 and 15 years old.
"read more: dog killed by swan in violent attack at local park  according to mr packard's calculations, he spent 30 to 40 seconds inside the animal before it surfaced.
the diver said: "i saw light, and he started throwing his head side to side, and the next thing i knew i was outside (in the water).
"mr packard, who lives in welfleet, was taken to cape cod hospital in hyannis.
he was discharged on friday with what he described as "a lot of soft tissue damage" but no broken bones.
despite the scare, mr packard intends to return to work as soon as he recovers.
don't missnoise complaint silences church bells for first time in 110 years [update]uk weather: heatwave is forecast for weekend as euro 2020 kicks off [reveal]boris urged not to delay unlocking restrictions on june 21 [insight] see today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic daily express newspaper archive.
'genocide and crimes against humanity', erosion of 'democratic norms' cited by washington in call with beijing.
united states secretary of state antony blinken in a phone call with china's top diplomat again voiced us concerns about the "ongoing genocide and ethnic cleansing" against muslim uigurs in china's far western region of xinjiang and "the deterioration of democratic norms" under china's rule in hong kong.
secretary blinken spoke on friday with yang jiechi, the chinese communist party's top foreign affairs officer, to discuss a range of thorny issues confronting the two major powers including north korea's nuclear programme, a state department spokesman said.
blinken's comments to yang follows the release on june 10 of a report by amnesty international showing xinjiang has become a "dystopian hellscape" where uighurs and other predominantly muslim ethnic minorities face systematic and state-organised "mass internment and torture amounting to crimes against humanity".
blinken's conversation with yang further comes as challenges posed by china figure in discussions now under way among leaders of the group of seven industrialised democracies in the united kingdom and attended by president joe biden.
china has cracked down on pro-democracy advocates in hong kong, a former british colony returned to chinese rule in 1997 under an agreed principle of "one china, two systems" that was to have allowed continuing democratic freedoms in hong kong.
in addition to "the need for the united states and the prc to work together for the denuclearization of the korean peninsula," blinken and yang discussed other "shared global challenges" including iran, myanmar and the climate crisis, state department spokesman ned price said in a statement.
blinken called for more "cooperation and transparency" from chinese authorities in the world health organization's continuing inquiries into the origin of the covid-19 virus.
on the call, yang expressed to blinken beijing's serious concern that some people in the us were spreading the "absurd story" about the coronavirus escaping from a wuhan laboratory, chinese state media said.
beijing firmly opposed what yang called "abominable actions" over the pandemic, which he said were being used to slander china, state broadcaster cctv said, according to the reuters news service.
the us's top diplomat called on beijing to "cease its pressure campaign against taiwan and peacefully resolve cross-strait issues", price said.
yang told blinken that washington should handle taiwan-related issues "carefully and appropriately," cctv reported.
washington should work with beijing to put ties "back on track," yang said, according to cctv.
the us and china have been engaged in an increasingly tense diplomatic exchange since blinken and yang met face-to-face in alaska in march.
at the time, the us expressed "deep concerns" about actions by china, and china pushed back as "firmly opposed to us interference in china's internal affairs".
bonnie glaser, an asia expert at the german marshall fund think-tank, told reuters that although the agenda included potential areas of cooperation, the conversation appeared dominated by contentious issues.
she said yang's call for washington to work with beijing to put ties "back on track" indicated that china was still putting the onus on the us for the problems in the relationship.
notwithstanding the diplomatic tensions, china's largest ride-hailing company, didi chuxing, filed on thursday for an initial public offering of stock on us financial markets in what is expected to be the world's biggest ipo this year, reuters reported.
the company is backed by asia's largest technology investment firms – softbank, alibaba and tencent.
sources familiar with the matter told reuters that it could raise around $10bn and seek a valuation of close to $100bn.
at that valuation, didi's listing would be the biggest chinese share offering in the us since alibaba raised $25bn in 2014. activists arrested and as many as 7,000 police to be deployed after annual vigil banned for a second year.
families fear that australia is being too cautious on issue because of china's economic might.
annual us human rights report takes china, russia, belarus to task over alleged rights abuses, cites yemen violations.
human rights watch is the latest to document policies of mass detention, torture and cultural persecution in xinjiang.
follow al jazeera english:
singapore — upset at a private hire car driver who sounded his horn and made a gesture, a man drove quickly to catch up and confront him.
marco paulo goncalves guimaraes, a 43-year-old portuguese, was jailed three weeks and fined $1,000 on thursday (10 june) after he pleaded guilty to one count of causing hurt to desmond wu weiming, and one count of not wearing a mask while arguing with wu.
guimaraes was also ordered to pay compensation of $122.
20 to the private hire car driver by end july.
a singapore permanent resident, guimaraes came to singapore in 2004 and founded football management international in 2010.  he began a career as a fifa licensed players' agent where he scouted for and helped to place promising players into european football clubs, according to his lawyer marshall lim from invictus law.
guimaraes was actively scouting for talent in malaysia and singapore to bring to portugal to experience football, but the covid-19 pandemic dealt a severe blow to his work, said lim.
he is struggling to manage the business and his club algarve clube de futbol while supporting his wife and his two daughters, lim said.
on 11 june last year, guimaraes was on his way to pick up one of his daughters from school when he got into the road rage incident.
his wife was beside him in the front passenger seat.
at about 1.
10pm, wu was driving along punggol drive, a two-lane road, when guimaraes overtook him.
guimaraes' car appeared to brake abruptly.
when wu passed by guimaraes' car, wu sounded his horn and gestured at him.
guimaraes drove quickly to catch up with wu and both cars stopped side-by-side at a loading bay at block 670a edgefield plains.
guimaraes alighted and approached wu's car while not wearing a mask.
singapore was in phase 1 of its reopening then and all were required to wear their masks in public spaces with some exceptions.
the portuguese then pushed the car door against wu, causing it to hit wu's right shin.
he then grabbed wu's right wrist and began arguing with him.
after wu emerged from his car, guimaraes pushed him while hurling profanities at him.
wu recorded guimaraes with his mobile phone, and the latter then wore a mask.
guimaraes then slapped wu on the side of his head and pushed his right arm.
he returned to his car and drove to a parking lot at a nearby loading bay, while wu called the police.
wu parked his car behind guimaraes' and both alighted, with guimaraes kicking wu on his left shin.
wu sought medical treatment at a hospital and was diagnosed with bruises and swelling over both shins, and over his left ear.
according to lim, guimaraes had been driving cautiously due to heavy traffic and had not been able to filter to the left lane as it was full of vehicles.
this was when wu had sounded his horn at guimaraes.
when guimaraes managed to filter left, wu "inexplicably sounded his vehicle horn at our client, despite our client having already gotten out of mr wu's way", said lim.
"our client instructs that as mr wu drove past, he raised his hand, and our client perceived that mr wu had pointed his middle finger at him as he drove past.
this was unwarranted conduct from mr wu, bearing in mind that our client had given way to mr wu, and did not respond to mr wu's sounding of his horn at our client as he cautiously navigated edgefield plains.
asking for two weeks' jail and a fine of $800, lim said, "our client therefore could not fathom what caused mr.  wu to act in such a rude manner.
"stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother singapore stories:validity of overseas malaysians' passports expiring in 2021 extended by 2 years for freetwo of four new covid cases in singapore are in communitypet shop manager who fought with sda fined, sda's case pendingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatibook en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenbeijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made ochina's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosouth korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeunderssecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
carbis bay, england: us president joe biden said on thursday (jun 10) that adonation of 500 million doses of the pfizer covid-19 vaccineto the world's poorest countries would supercharge the battle with the virus and comes with "no strings attached".
biden, speaking alongside pfizer chief executive albert bourla in the english seaside resort of carbis bay ahead of a g7 summit, thanked other leaders for recognising their responsibility to vaccinate the world.
"the united states is providing these half billion doses with no strings attached.
no strings attached," biden said.
"our vaccine donations don't include pressure for favours, or potential concessions.
we're doing this to save lives.
"biden, keen to burnish his multilateral credentials on his first foreign trip as leader, cast the donation as a bold move that showed america recognised its responsibility to the world and to its own citizens.
"america will be the arsenal of vaccines in our fight against covid-19, just as america was the arsenal of democracy during world war two," biden said.
the largest ever vaccine donation by a single country will cost the united states us$3.
5 billion but willspur further donations from other g7 leaders- including british prime minister boris johnson.
g7 leaders want to vaccinate the world by the end of 2022 to try to halt the covid-19 pandemic that has killed more than 3.
9 million people, devastated the global economy and upended the normal lives of billions of people.
vaccination efforts so far are heavily correlated with wealth: the united states, europe, israel and bahrain are far ahead of other countries.
a total of 2.
2 billion people have been vaccinated so far out of a world population of nearly 8 billion, based on johns hopkins university data.
'save lives'us drugmaker pfizer and its german partner biontech have agreed to supply the us with the vaccines, delivering 200 million doses in 2021 and 300 million doses in the first half of 2022. the shots, which will be produced at pfizer's us sites, will be supplied at a not-for-profit price.
around 100 countries will get the shots.
pfizer ceo bourla said the eyes of the world were on the leaders of rich nations to see if they would act to solve the covid-19 crisis and share with poorer nations.
"this announcement with the us government gets us closer to our goal and significantly enhances our ability to save even more lives across the globe," he said.
while such a large donation of vaccines was welcomed by many, there were immediately calls for the richest nations of the world to open up more of their giant hoards of vaccines.
anti-poverty campaign group oxfam called for more to be done to increase global production of vaccines.
"surely, these 500 million vaccine doses are welcome as they will help more than 250 million people, but that's still a drop in the bucket compared to the need across the world," said niko lusiani, oxfam america's vaccine lead.
"we need a transformation toward more distributed vaccine manufacturing so that qualified producers worldwide can produce billions more low-cost doses on their own terms, without intellectual property constraints," he said in a statement.
another issue, especially in some poor countries, is the infrastructure for transporting the vaccines which often have to be stored at very cold temperatures.
ip waiverbiden has also backed calls for awaiver of some vaccine intellectual property rightsbut there is no international consensus yet on how to proceed.
the new vaccine donations come on top of 80 million doses washington has already pledged to donate by the end of june.
there is also us$2 billion in funding earmarked for the covax programme led by the world health organization (who) and the global alliance for vaccines and immunization (gavi), the white house said.
gavi and the who welcomed the initiative.
washington is also taking steps to support local production of covid-19 vaccines in other countries, including through its quad initiative with japan, india and australia.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.

                    friday, 11 jun 2021
                the man fled to malaysia through the woodlands checkpoint sometime in october 1999, with the help of a friend.
the straits times/annsingapore, june 11 (the straits times/ann): a man who was on the run from the law for 20 years was sentenced on friday to an additional six months in jail for misleading an immigration officer and for missing a court hearing in 2000. siva kumar ramachandram, 46, fled to malaysia after being convicted here of smuggling illegal immigrants out through the woodlands checkpoint, the corrupt practices investigation bureau (cpib) said on friday (june 11).
he had been sentenced to five years in jail and 12 strokes of the cane on sept 24, 1999. but siva fled the country sometime in october 1999, with the help of a friend known only as "boy".
at the woodlands checkpoint, siva, a malaysian, used an unidentified person's passport to cross into malaysia.
he was on court bail at the time, and missed his magistrate's appeal hearing on march 9, 2000, at the high court of singapore.
a warrant for his arrest was issued that day, said cpib.
he was arrested by the cpib on march 4, 2020, with the help of the malaysian anti-corruption commission.
on april 16, 2021, siva was charged with offences under the immigration act and penal code.
he will serve the six-month jail term after completing his initial five-year sentence.
siva was given the five-year sentence after he was found guilty of a conspiracy that involved bribing a cisco officer to allow buses to transport illegal immigrants from singapore into malaysia through the woodlands checkpoint.
the cisco officer was sentenced to one year in jail and fined $2, 800 in 1999. cpib said that singapore adopts a strict zero-tolerance approach to corruption.
the straits times/ann 
tags / keywords:
singapore
                                                                ,
                                                                                                malaysian man
                                                                ,
                                                                                                on the run
                                                                ,
                                                                                                0 years
                                                                ,
                                                                                                five years
                                                                ,
                                                                                                jail
                                                                ,
                                                                                                extra six months
                                                                ,
                                                                                                friday (june 11)
                                                                ,
                                                                                                sentenced



report it to us.
thank you for your report!copyright © 1995-
            

 star media group berhad (10894d)best viewed on chrome browsers.
{{item['v1 header']}}
   {{item['v1 body']}}

  {{item['v2 header']}}
it's a matter of great concern as cases of racial discrimination and intolerance continue to rise.
in another shocking incident, an indian-singaporean took to facebook to share how his chinese-singaporean neighbour misbehaved while he was praying.
this incident follows just days after a chinese man was caught on camera making derogatory remarks towards an interracial couple.
screengrab: facebookindian-singaporean, livanesh ramu, shared a video of the incident on facebook and described what transpired.
in the video– which has now been shared by 1.
7k users– he can be seen using a handheld prayer bell.
but just as he steps out for prayer, his chinese neighbour barges into the frame and disturbs ramu's prayer by loudly beating a dong.
in his post, ramu described, "like many other hindus, this has been a part of our family's 5-minute, twice a week prayer routine.
having lived in this home for more than 20 years we never had any issues.
i guess with covid we have a new norm.
"soon after posting the video, he received several supportive messages from singaporeans, most of whom lauded him for his calmness.
while others pointed that the lady was a minority in the largely racially equitable island nation.
screengrab: facebookone user wrote, "this is disrespectful and downright shameful on that lady.
and the look on her face!!!!
epic"another user wondered why people have become far less considerate today.
she questioned, "i have a neighbour like u also indian.
.
.
it's normal.
.
.
it's their ritual n religion.
.
not so loud they ring the bell.
is juz less than 8mins then they are done.
.
y can't the lady be more considerate?
"thankfully, the video managed to reach the police just in time, who intervened and are now working with ramu to sort the matter.
as he later added to his post, "the singapore police force has reached out to us.
we are coordinating with them at the moment.
"while this incident has shed light on the menace of racism in singapore, it is not the reality of this progressive island nation.
most singaporeans, especially young parents, are raising their children to become more educated on such subjects and of course, open to all belief systems and cultures.
as roshni mahtani cheung, group ceo & founder, theasianparent, puts it, "i am not sure what triggered the woman to act out in such a manner – but as a country, we singaporeans need to be more tolerant and not get so agitated by small things.
""for those of us who are parents, we need to check our own behaviour.
ask ourselves if we are doing enough to expose our child to different cultures, religions and belief systems," adds the young mum.
not just local singaporeans, but expats in singapore also believe that this is a one off incident and doesn't reflect singapore's inclusivity.
"i have never faced any such issues.
in fact, i have always been welcomed and felt safe being in singapore.
the current issues are one of cases.
it doesn't represent the community here and i am fortunate to be allowed to stay in this country with my family," shared vineeth kallarakkal, head of marketing, theasianparent.
kallarakkal has been living in singapore for eight years now and is originally from india.
although this unfortunate incident has highlighted the need for more awareness, we cannot overlook the promptness of singapore police force that further proves the sanctity of racism laws in singapore.
from the penal code to the protection from harassment act, singapore has a range of laws to guard citizens against racism.
in fact, these laws can also be invoked even if there was no intention to hurt racial or religious feelings.
the laws apply to comments made online and also when a non-verbal gesture was made in public.
according to the straits times report, lawyers note that other than racial enmity laws, authorities can investigate such actions under the protection from harassment act and the sedition act.
there are also other provisions in the penal code which may apply, such as public nuisance.
these rules are proof that those who harass fellow citizens not only take the law into their own hands but also instil fear.
so the best possible solution to this issue is that we must teach ourselves and our future generations to spread love and not hatred.
let's make this a safer place for everybody and continue to live in harmony.
racism in singapore: interracial couple abused by chinese singaporean man, police probe onteach your kids to say no to racism – bring them up colour blind!the post watch video: chinese woman misbehaves with indian singaporean while he prays appeared first on theasianparent your guide to pregnancy, baby & raising kids.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringena hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatidemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hoen elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
turns out the comic books were wrong.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore singaporeans studying in australian institutions are looking forward to a proposed travel bubble between the two countries, as they may finally be able to return to their campuses there or spend holidays with their families here.
prime minister lee hsien loong and his australian counterpart scott morrison said on thursday that the two countries are working towards an air travel bubble.
they hoped singapore students in australia, whose studies have been disrupted by the covid-19 travel restrictions, would be the first to get the opportunity to travel under the arrangement.
all six students the straits times spoke to on friday (june 11) expressed optimism about the travel bubble.
for first-year students like mr chris gan, who is doing his bachelor's degree in politics, philosophy and economics at the australian national university, it will be his first chance to set foot on its campus.
the 21-year-old said he was not too concerned that the travel bubble may be one-way.
"i am confident singaporeans will be able to travel to australia too.
"mr sun yuchen, 23, a third-year student at the university of melbourne who is currently on a year's leave of absence, is looking forward to returning to campus.
"i see a chance for me to return to australia to complete my studies and gain experience by using actual facilities the school provides," he said.
singaporeans who are currently in australia, such as university of new south wales student joseph tan, look forward to reuniting with family here.
the 23-year-old, who has been in australia since february last year, said he had been unable to return home, as his degree in aviation requires him to attend flying lessons there.
he added: "the travel bubble between singapore and australia comes as a relief to me as i have the opportunity to finally return home and see my family after being away for so long.
even if i can only return for a few days, it is comforting to return home again.
"students who returned to singapore when the covid-19 pandemic worsened said the past year had been tough for them.
psychology student audrey chan, 23, is a final-year student at the university of queensland.
she has been continuing her classes remotely since returning to singapore in march last year.
she said: "my singaporean and malaysian peers agree that we often feel like an outsider or a cctv spying on the class via zoom, and this makes class participation painfully awkward and hard for us.
some of us are stressed out, as we find it hard to keep up with the class, especially when technology fails us.
"university of adelaide student shalynn tsai, 21, who is doing her bachelor's degree in dental surgery, had to take leave of absence because she was unable to return to campus by mid-september last year.
"it has been very stressful not knowing when or whether we can even continue with our degree courses," she said.
"with the travel bubble, we can finally go back and resume our studies.
"while the students understand that they may need to undergo pre-departure and arrival tests for the coronavirus, they hoped they would not have to incur hefty charges and would not have to be quarantined if already vaccinated.
mr ryan soh, 21, will be commencing his communication studies at queensland university of technology later this month.
"i hope that there will be no need for a quarantine once vaccination has been done and the covid-19 test comes back negative.
kind of like what's going on between new zealand and australia," he said.
"nevertheless, if there is a need for quarantine, then hopefully it would be more accessible or cheaper for students, as some of us may not be able to afford it.
"mr tan felt the same.
"hopefully it will not be too expensive and there will not be a need to self-quarantine for too long once i arrive at either destination.
i understand the need for the covid-19 tests to ensure there are no imported cases and hope that both countries can maintain the safety of not only its residents but those travelling as well," he said.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
lee joonmin was riding along woodlands road on monday evening (june 7) when he saw the flash of a blue and red light in his motorcycle's rearview mirror.
when he realised a traffic police officer was tailing him, the 23-year-old dispatch supervisor broke into a sweat.
"to my horror, i saw the [traffic police] officer was gesturing at me to pull over," lee said in a facebook post later that evening.
it soon went viral with over 1,200 shares.
he was stunned when the officer revealed why he was getting "booked".
[embed]https://www.
facebook.
com/chifferon/posts/4324023350982616[/embed]speaking with asiaone, lee said many thoughts raced through his mind as he dismounted his motorcycle, including "oh no, what did i do", "there goes my money", "did i fail to signal?
"he recounted how there was a "super awkward and longest sentence pause of [his] entire life" before the officer told him what he was actually pulled over for.
lee was given a reward for being a safety role model to other motorcyclists on the road, as he was wearing protective riding gear.
only then did lee breathe a sigh of relief and graciously accepted the reward — a bag filled with a mask, hand sanitiser, surface sanitiser, wet tissues, an ez-link card and a pouch.
"i never expected this to happen to me," he said.
"[the officer] really had me there.
"lee isn't the only person to have been pulled over by the traffic police for being a good noodle.
since the introduction of the "reward the riders" initiative in 2019, the traffic police have been recognising and rewarding numerous motorcyclists who wear protective gear and display good riding behaviour on the road.
[embed]https://twitter.
com/singaporepolice/status/1177967230400659456[/embed]despite the heat, the expensive riding gear and the social stigma that comes with wearing the full outfit, lee said he chose to wear the protective wear as he knew the pain that came with traffic accidents.
"i crashed three whole times within my first month of riding," he sheepishly admitted.
"never again after that!"rainercheung@asiaone.
com
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
the law came into effect on thursday, adding to china's toolbox as it builds its defences against us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
the move also came just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest -- allowing beijing to now hit back at those who formulate or comply with foreign sanctions.
"european companies in china are shocked by the lack of transparency and speed of this process," european chamber president joerg wuttke told afp, referring to the passing of the new law.
with the fresh rules prohibiting organisations from implementing what beijing deems discriminatory and restrictive measures, "foreign firms remain very much stuck between a rock and a hard place," he said.
american chamber of commerce chairman greg gilligan cautioned that the new law "presents potentially irreconcilable compliance problems for foreign companies".
rushing through a new law without an opportunity for public comment severely jeopardises foreign investor confidence in china's legal system as well, he added.
but chinese foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin told a regular press briefing on friday he did not see a definite link between the new law and foreign investment.
"if anything, the enactment of the anti-foreign sanctions law provides a predictable legal environment.
.
.
for foreign companies operating in china," he said.
wuttke, however, warned that the action was not conducive to attracting investment, or in reassuring companies that "already feel they may be used as sacrificial pawns in a game of political chess".
"there is a real concern that this will further destabilise eu-china relations," he said.
in the european chamber's latest business confidence survey released this week, 41 per cent of respondents said china's business environment had become more politicised last year.
most reported they expect the situation to remain the same or deteriorate over the coming year.
bys-ehl/jfxagnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,lige nu kan du prøve aktiviva med en introrabat på 50% på første pakke, hvis du tilmelder dig abonnementsordningen – efterfølgende sparer du 20%a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatisingapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringena top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hobedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
concerns surrounding china's "unfair and market-distorting industrial policies" and the "need to level the playing field" for american companies in the country were raised during thursday's latest round of trade talks, according to the us department of commerce.
china confirmed commerce minister wang wentao spoke with his american counterpart gina raimondo on thursday, with the talks described as a "candid and pragmatic exchange of views".
china's statement also said the talks took place at theturns out the comic books were wrong.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
the ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
a 24-year-old man who was seen naked in public in several photos and videos circulating online has been arrested by the police.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a wider range of sports activities will be allowed in the coming weeks when singapore enters phase three (heightened alert) on monday (june 14).
selected organised outdoor programmes with a cap of five people up from two may resume, while from june 21, sport competitions and tournaments without spectators will be given the green light as long as they do not exceed 50 persons in each facility.
these were among the latest updates in sport singapore's (sportsg) advisory issued on friday.
the rules for outdoor training for youth and children aged 18 and under will be eased progressively.
for the first week, low- and high-intensity activities will be kept to a maximum of five.
from june 21, this will increase to 30 with multiple groups of five.
for adults, the five-person cap for high-intensity activities will be relaxed from june 21 as well.
swimfast aquatic group founder david lim welcomed the changes.
his academy has been operating at 20 per cent for the past month during the heightened measures for phase 2. high-intensity outdoor activities such as swimming, where masks have to be removed, were restricted to two people and no multiple groups of two are allowed.
this includes the coach or instructor.
as such, lim had to suspend the academy's learn-to-swim sessions since the start of the current heightened phase began on may 16 and continued only his competitive swimming sessions.
he said: "it's a relief, we can legitimately carry on the classes.
now, we're only doing competitive swimming, so it's no different.
we're just like a pool operator.
swimmers book a lane and swim by themselves.
"now we don't have to juggle such small numbers.
we can carry out lessons with four swimmers to one coach.
that ratio is a huge difference to us because when it's one-to-one, we're definitely losing money.
"the multi-ministry task force on thursday had indicated that mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
national agency sportsg's latest update permitting sports competitions as long as different sessions are adequately separated within a day or across multiple days to avoid congregation was welcomed by organisers like lld sports development and management founder lyn yeo.
her company is hoping to get approval for the cartimes singapore junior development tour championship.
the golf event at laguna national was postponed from its original may 31-june 2 date.
she said: "june is typically the busiest tournament season for junior golfers and we are hoping with great excitement that we are able to resume.
"some measures that organisers plan to have in place include temperature screening and safe entry protocols, as well as restricting each flight to two buggies, which have been installed with a full partition.
players and officials will also be required to wear masks throughout their rounds.
for gyms and fitness studios, many of whom are closed due to current restrictions, they will be allowed to restart operations from june 21. staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing, which is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities.
this will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
sportsg also announced that the occupancy limit for sport and recreational facilities will be increased to one person per 10 sq m from one person per 16 sq m, capped at 50 people.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: a judge has granted a bid by a former bus driver to have his case against sbs transit for allegedly unfair work practices – including long work hours and unpaid overtime – heard in the high court.
justice audrey lim said in a written judgment released on thursday (jun 10) that the case raises important questions of law to warrant the move to the higher court from the magistrate's courts.
although the case was mounted by one bus driver, mr chua qwong meng, another 12 drivers are linked to it.
mr chua claims that about s$720,000 is involved in the allegations of all 13 suits, which include unpaid overtime fees and contentions on the maximum consecutive number of work days allowed.
the case affects not only the bus driver in the case but a larger class of employees including those in the public transport sector, said the judge.
lawyer m ravi represented mr chua and the other 12 bus drivers, while sbs transit was represented by a team of lawyers led by senior counsel davinder singh.
mr chua worked for sbs transit from april 2017 to early 2020.  he commenced his suit against the company for breaches of contract and provisions of the employment act on sep 20, 2019. four other bus drivers commenced similar proceedings in the magistrates' courts that same day, and another eight drivers launched their own suits subsequently.
in total, 13 bus drivers are suing sbs transit over what the judge said are essentially the same matters pertaining to their employment.
they are: mr chua, mr lee chye chong, mr chian poh seng, mr fung chean seng, mr tan ting hock robin, mr thiyagu balan, mr gan kim kiam, mr huzainal hussein, mr lim you onn, mr chiew yi yee, mr meerah mohamed halideen, mr razak hasim and mr mohamad sani din.
it was agreed on mar 4 last year that mr chua's case would be heard as a test case, with the other 12 suits held in abeyance pending the determination of his case.
mr chua's claimsmr chua claims that sbs transit breached the employment act by not giving him a rest day per week.
its employment practices were also allegedly in breach of the manpower ministry's regulated pay rate that an employer is expected to pay for work done during a rest day.
mr chua also claims that he was underpaid for overtime work, and that the company did not pay him the statutorily prescribed rate for working on a rest day.
as a result, he worked in excess of the prescribed work hours in a day or week.
he also claims that the company did not pay him an agreed allowance for work done on the night shift.
sbs transit denies the claims and asserts that it has complied with contractual obligations and laws, rules or regulations on working hours, overtime pay and rest days.
it claims that it compensated mr chua in compliance with his employment contract, which started in 2017, as well as with the law and the manpower ministry's guidelines.
mr ravi's arguments, and mr davinder singh'smr ravi argued for the case to be transferred to the high court as it involves an important question of law and is a test case.
he said the questions of law which include how "rest days" are interpreted and whether an employee can work for 12 consecutive days over a 14-day period will impact not only the plaintiffs but the whole of the employment sector in singapore.
the 13 suits amount to s$720,000, which is beyond the district court's limit, he said.
mr singh objected to having the case heard in the high court, claiming abuse of court process and saying there is no important question of law.
he said there is nothing to suggest that the issues raise difficult or complex issues.
the state courts regularly deal with disputes involving the interpretation of employment agreements and the provisions of the employment act, he added.
he said mr chua has not shown credible evidence that damages in his suit would exceed s$250,000, the jurisdictional limit of the district court.
justice lim said an important question of law need not necessarily be a complex or difficult one, and that just because the state courts deal with employment disputes does not mean there may not be important questions of law in the provisions of the employment act.
she found that the questions of law in this case are important ones which affect a larger class of employees, pointing to how 12 other drivers filed similar suits.
"the employment act provides for mandated rest days and limits to hours of work (among other matters) to protect the rights of employees," she said.
"the question of whether this can be 'overridden' in a case where an employee is deemed to provide essential services, which on its face may not look like a difficult question, is important as it affects a larger population of workers in general," the judge said.
the case would have potential ramifications on how such contracts are structured in terms of granting days off, computing overtime pay and determining work hours, she added.
in a statement, sbs transit said it respects justice lim's decision and "will continue to vigorously contest the bus captains' claims in the high court".
the case will be heard at a later date.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the johor skyline is now dotted with empty condominium units, due to an oversupply in the market and lack of foreign buyers.
johor bahru: when singapore business owner jonathan gan purchased a 4-room condominium at lovell country garden in 2018, he thought he had clinched his dream retirement home.
the freehold apartment located near johor bahru's city centre was twice the size of his 3-room hdb flat in singapore, but the cost was only half of the latter when he bought it directly from the developers.
"the best thing about the unit is the amazing view.
you never get anything close to it at such value in singapore," added the 42-year-old, who lives with his wife and two daughters.
the apartment, like most units in the lovell development, overlooks the straits of johor.
the balcony opens up to a picturesque sea view and there is a sandy beach below.
"it was the ideal weekend home," said gan.
"but now it's becoming a bugbear.
"just three years after he purchased it, gan who bought the unit at around rm1 million (us$242,000) is having a hard time trying to sell it, even though the asking price is a fraction of what he paid for it.
since the covid-19 pandemic hit last year, border closures between singapore and malaysia meant that he and his family could not visit his weekend home.
furthermore, gan's business in singapore has been affected by the pandemic, and he now needs to sell the apartment to gain some liquidity.
"all this was never part of the plan.
but the house is just left there, collecting dust and its value is going down by the day.
we felt it is better to cut our losses and try to get rid of it," he told cna.
despite being on the market for over a year, there have been no takers.
he has engaged agents and even advertised the unit on various property portals but to no avail.
"there is not much hope.
barely anyone has viewed or signalled interest," he said.
gan is among property owners in johor bahru who are having issues trying to sell their properties, as the market is in the doldrums due to the prolonged effects of covid-19.
condominium developments around johor bahru were built with foreign buyers in mind, but the pandemic has closed borders, leaving many of them empty.
units owned by those from china, singapore, hong kong have been left unoccupiedwhile homes that were left unsold have stayed empty.
landed property is also facing potential depreciation.
johor's oversupply problemaccording to statistics compiled by property consultancy firm henry butcher, the value and volume of residential property transactions in johor had been climbing "rather steadily" from 2017 until 2019. in its report on the outlook of the malaysian property market in 2021, the firm noted that the volume of transactions rose 8 per cent in 2018 and 7.
5 per cent in 2019, while the value of the transactions increased by 1.
5 per cent in 2018 and 15.
9 per cent in 2019. the report highlighted that the movement control order (mco) imposed by the malaysian government from mar 18, 2020 was a key reason that reversed the upward trend.
it said that in the first nine months of 2020, the volume and value of transactions declined by almost a quarter compared to the same period in 2019. property analyst debbie choy, who is director of knight frank malaysia's johor branch, said the situation is particularly bad for condominiums and serviced apartments, of which there is an oversupply in the iskandar region.
"many developments were targeting a large proportion of overseas buyers.
with the prolonged effects of covid-19 restricting movements, it has been challenging for developers or investors to offload either for sale or rent," said choy.
the situation is exacerbated by the fact that foreigners are presently not allowed to purchase homes in malaysia under the malaysia my second home program (mm2h) scheme, which has been temporarily suspended since july 2020. mm2h was suspended by the ministry of tourism, arts and culture (motac) in line with the government's decision to bar foreigners from entering enter malaysia following the outbreak of covid-19.
motac added that the government is currently reviewing the mm2h programme, and that foreigners still interested to participate must abide by the latest requirements when it is reinstated.
mm2h president anthony liew was quoted by local media last sunday (jun 6) saying that the suspension has curtailed interest from singapore and china buyers in johor property.
"the three big chinese developers, country garden pacificview, r&f development and greenland group, have seen the demand for their developments in johor from chinese buyers drop," loke reportedly said.
even owners of the more premium, newer developments in johor bahru are having problems trying to attract tenants.
a taiwanese woman, who wanted to be known only as k, told cna that she has put up her 3-room condominium unit at the astaka for rent, after she headed back home when the pandemic hit.
the astaka, a premium condominium located at bukit senyum in the heart of johor bahru, saw 70 per cent of its units snapped up by buyers when it was first launched in 2019. the two towers, standing at 65 and 70 storeys, have 3 or 4 room units of between 2,207 and 2,659 sq ft. however, after the pandemic hit, demand has dried up and owners who are not in johor are not able to find interested tenants.
k told cna that she had purchased the unit in 2019, with the idea of renting it out for investment returns.
however, after almost two years, no tenant has made a "suitable offer".
she first listed her 3-room unit at rm5,700 a month.
fifteen months later, she has lowered the rental price to rm3,800 and there has not been a single offer from potential tenants.
she purchased the unit for around rm2 million.
"i think considering the circumstances, i have no choice but to lower the rental price.
i notice that there have been no offers.
i am patient.
hopefully, when the pandemic is over, there will be people who are interested," said k. the demand from johoreans has also weakened, as they reel from the effects of the pandemic.
khor yu leng, a political economist with consultancy firm segi enam advisors, said that besides border closures restricting foreign buyers or tenants, locals are also grappling with the economic impact of covid-19 and their disposable income has been restricted.
she noted that locals with more spending power were typically johoreans who commuted daily to singapore for work.
however, with borders closed from daily commuting, this group is either out of work or is now based in singapore.
"the spending power of the former johor daily commuters and singapore residents who visited johor weekly or otherwise has diminished or disappeared from the johor economy," said khor.
she noted that the impact on the johor economy meant that some johoreans have turned to the state government for financial assistance,and buying luxury condominium property is not realistic.
"a year later, with johor's economic umbilical still cut off from singapore, and malaysia suffering a big wave of covid-19, informal social support activities (to help the lower-income households) have been ongoing," added khor.
even with the overall value and volume of transactions increasing prior to covid-19, khor noted there were signs that some condominium developments were struggling to sell their excess units.
in its report, henry butcher malaysia highlighted that johor was the state with the highest proportion of unsold residential properties in the country, even before covid-19.
the report said that johor contributes 19.
5 per cent of "overhang" residential properties and a whopping 73.
7 per cent of all overhang condominium apartments in the country in 2019.
"of these, approximately 34 per cent of the overhang service apartments/sohos are priced over rm1 million which were believed to have been designed specifically for foreign investors from singapore and china," the report said.
landed homes also affectedbesides condominiums and serviced apartments, those with landed properties in the southern state are also concerned about depreciating values.
a singaporean who wanted to be known only as mustaqim, who owns a 2-storey 4,000 sq ft terrace home at gated community horizon hills, has expressed concern that the value of his house is depreciating since he purchased it in july 2017. horizon hills is popular among foreign buyers, especially singaporeans, as it is a mere 15-minute drive to tuas second link.
the development is also close to amenities such as the sunway iskandar township, which has hospitals, malls as well as prestigious international schools.
mustaqim bought the house as a retirement home rather than an investment, but admitted he was worried that based onrecent price trendsin the area, his home has lost some of its value.
he bought his home a decade after the development was launched in 2017, for around rm1.
8 million.
"with covid-19, some of my neighbours who are singaporeans have decided to sell their homes for rm1.
1 million to rm1.
2 million.
it is spoiling the market a bit but i can understand why with the borders closed," said mustaqim.
"i am concerned that this downward trend will continue and my home's value will be going lower and lower.
i would be owning a depreciating asset," he added.
however, mustaqim, who is currently in singapore due to the borders being closed, is determined to wait out the pandemic.
"the value will rise again post-pandemic," said mustaqim.
property agents in johor have also seen their livelihoods hit with the lower volume and value of transactions during covid-19.
an agent who wanted to be quoted only as brian, told cna that he has been forced to take a second mortgage on his own home as the number of transactions has dried up since the pandemic.
"some months i barely make any transactions, so i've been looking around for another job to tide through over the next few months," he said.
the agent, who specialises in selling condominiums in the central johor bahru area, said that most developments have the same problem – too many units on sale with "almost zero" demand.
"some months, we have to live with zero completed transactions.
so, the situation is really bad for us," added brian.
the tightening of restrictions during the ongoing nationwide mco 3.
0 meant that agents are not able to legally arrange physical viewings of homes for any interested buyers or tenants.
with virtual viewings being the only permissible option, it becomes even harder to make a sale.
cna has approached the johor chief minister's office, as well as the state housing and local government committee for comments on the state of the property market and whether measures will be taken to assist industry players.
empty homes susceptible to crimeanother headache for owners whose properties have been left empty is their susceptibility to break-ins.
economist khor said that properties that are not located within gated communities may be more vulnerable.
investors with properties in johor but cannot be physically there are now confronting the practical problems of how to guard, maintain and have a house-sitter, she said.
"the reality of the prolonged border closure will surely crimp some future demand," she added.
in september last year, it was reported that police had arrested two men for breaking into houses at taman bukit indah, a suburb where foreigners have been known to invest in property.
johor police added that the pair had specifically targeted vacant homes whose owners were in singapore due to the border restrictions.
rahmah zainolabidin, a singaporean who chose to remain in johor bahru during this pandemic, told cna that she has been taking care of homes belonging to her family members who have chosen to return to the city-state.
she told cna how her sister's home, a terrace house located in a non-gated community in taman bukit indah, had been robbed in august 2020.
"when i was walking towards the home from afar, i could see that something was wrong.
the windows were pried open wide and the gate was ajar," said the 65-year-old.
"they broke the gate grilles and drilled into the safe, taking thousands of dollars in cash as well as jewellery," she added.
rahmah said that her sister was considering selling the house, but she had to first set aside money to repair the damage inflicted.
"it is sad because she already got robbed, but now she has to fork out more money to try to sell it off.
and in this market, i'm convinced there will be little interest, especially with the number of robberies reported in the area," rahmah added.
"crime is a serious issue .
.
.
i don't think people would consider buying homes in areas with high incidences of break-ins.
"charmaine tay, a freelance agent who focuses on property deals in johor bahru and the medini iskandar malaysia area, told cna that houses located in areas with a high incidence of break-ins have seen a drop in value and demand.
"many buyers are aware that landed homes are susceptible to break-ins in johor, so they tend to look for those located within gated areas where there are security checks," said tay.
"but for those houses outside gated communities, especially in areas like taman bukit indah where robbery is common, they are harder to sell, and the value has depreciated faster recently," she addedbuyers from other states, overseas bargain hunters could spark recoverythose interviewed by cna said that there are two groups of buyers who could help pave the way towards recovery in the residential property sector.
the first group is potential buyers from other states.
choy of knight frank predicted that domestic tourism will likely recover first.
she noted how in the second half of 2020, the property market saw a slight rebound when movement restrictions were lifted domestically before another wave of infections hit in september.
choy said that many malaysians who have been stuck in kuala lumpur would then take some "leisure time off" and possibly buy or rent properties in the smaller cities.
however, she warned that the high-rise residential sector in johor would only see gradual and slow progress as the units, which are in abundant oversupply, are not priced right for locals.
"developers have since then restructured and re-looked at planning to target more local purchasers i. e.  by reducing unit sizing and thus, the end pricing – this makes the prices more palatable for the local community," said choy.
the return of foreign buyers may also provide some relief.
choy highlighted the reopening of borders will provide "a more optimistic outlook with more certainty and flexibility on travel arrangements", especially with the currently low prices.
she noted that even as there will be bargain hunters from overseas, foreign buyers should note the johor land administration has stated that there is a minimum threshold of rm1 million on residential homes for non-malaysian citizens.
with borders remaining shut in the short term, the situation seems especially bleak for those desperate to sell their homes like gan, who cannot find a buyer despite lowering his asking price for his 4-room apartment at lovell country garden.
"it's a sticky situation.
although we had good times using it as a weekend home, ultimately buying it was a wrong decision we now regret," he said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
china's top legislative body has passed an anti-sanctions law , providing legal backing for sweeping retaliation against any individuals, their families and organisations responsible for imposing foreign sanctions against the country.
the legislation was passed on thursday at the closing session of the national people's congress (npc) standing committee, and was effective the same day.
tam yiu chung, hong kong's sole delegate to the npc standing committee, said that under the new law, the state council and its agencies would be responsible for coordinating retaliatory measures.
"these measures can be applied to organisations and individuals, as well as extended to the individuals' spouses, relatives and the organisations that they belong to," he said.
[embed]https://youtu.
be/z5nydpsky0a[/embed]tam said that under article 6 of the new law, beijing's retaliatory measures could include denial of visa applications or entry into china.
in the case of visa holders, authorities could declare their document invalid and deport them.
individuals' property or assets could be frozen or seized, and institutions could be restricted from conducting transactions with individuals or organisations targeted, he said.
the law also specified that no one in the country could help other countries implement measures against china, and people must instead help beijing's authorities to execute retaliatory measures.
individuals and organisations affected by sanctions could make claims in mainland courts, tam said.
state media said the move was intended to provide a legal basis for china to respond to sanctions.
china has issued counter-sanctions in response to sanctions against it from the united states, the european union, britain and canada over beijing's political crackdown in hong kong and treatment of ethnic minority groups in xinjiang .
after the law was passed, li zhanshu, head of the npc standing committee, said : "china will not give up its legitimate interest.
and no one should have any illusion of letting china swallow the bitter fruit that harms our own interests.
"chinese foreign ministry spokesman wang wenbin said the passage of the new law showed china's determination to protect its sovereignty and core interests, and would not affect its relations with other countries.
[[nid:495641]]the anti-sanctions law was announced on monday night by state media and underwent a second reading but skipped a third, in the same way the national security law for hong kong went through the legislative process.
the new law is the strongest tool so far for china to respond to foreign sanctions, after the ministry of commerce in january issued a "blocking statute" requiring chinese companies to report foreign restrictions on economic or trade activities.
it had last september unveiled an unreliable entity list for foreign businesses.
washington has imposed a number of sanctions on china over its policies in hong kong and xinjiang, including targeting hong kong's leader carrie lam cheng yuet ngor and xinjiang 's communist party chief chen quanguo, as well as other senior mainland and hong kong officials and the 14 vice-chairpersons of the npc.
canada, britain and the european union also imposed sanctions on china.
tian feilong, an associate professor at beihang university's law school, has been involved in the consultations over the new legislation.
he said the draft of the law was first read in april, after the us senate committee on foreign relations backed an act to counter competition from china.
he said discussion about the law started last year when donald trump was still us president, but china was waiting to see how trump's successor, joe biden , would approach relations with china.
"the central leadership was already considering it last year, and the academic community has made suggestions," he said.
"the timing is based on biden's china policies.
"[embed]https://youtu.
be/ufqdggczq9c[/embed]tam said it was not specified in the legislation whether the new law would apply to hong kong and macau through local legislation.
"for a mainland law to apply in hong kong, it needs to be inserted into annex iii of the basic law .
.
.
but the new law did not mention how the law would be applied outside the mainland," he said.
"i would not say that it could not be applied in hong kong either.
probably the mainland authorities need more time to study its application.
"[[nid:518182]]tam, who is also sanctioned by the us for the enactment of the national security law in hong kong, which critics say has undermined the city's autonomy, said he supported the new law but had no plan to invoke any provision in it himself.
"i have not yet considered how this law will help me," he said.
"i just think that from the macro level, it is good to have this law so that it's not just individual agencies or the central government [making] retaliatory measures, but the responsibility of the state council as a whole.
"i support this law because as the chinese saying goes, 'offend no one if none offends you, but retaliate if you are under attack.
'"there have been concerns among foreign companies over the lack of transparency around the legislative process and the potential impact on businesses in china and hong kong, which analysts say will need to be wary of being linked to foreign entities under chinese sanctions.
greg gilligan, chairman of the american chamber of commerce in china, said it was difficult to comment on the law until details were available.
"however, where there is any disagreement across borders, governments need to come together to reconcile this in a way that allows businesses to remain legally compliant within the jurisdictions in which they operate," he said.
this article was first published in south china morning post.
new delhi: india on saturday (jun 12) reported 84,332 new covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest in more than two months, data from the health ministry showed.
the south asian country's total covid-19 case load now stands at 29.
4 million, while total fatalities are at 367,081, data.
india added 4,002 deaths overnight.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, but the discovery ofseveral thousand unreported deaths in the state of biharhas raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
source: nurul fatimah iskandar (@_new_rule_) / instagramon the heels of the suspension of the ngee ann polytechnic lecturer who was caught on video making racist remarks to an interracial couple from his teaching duties, a former student of his took to social media to share her own experience of being subject to islamophobic remarks from him in front of a class.
ms nurul fatimah binti iskandar, who was a student of mr tan boon lee for an object oriented programming module in 2017, said in an instagram post on wednesday (9 june) that the lecturer had "used our class period to have a full-on discourse about islam".
"i was the only muslim in class.
he opened websites on the projector, pointing out things he didn't agree with about the quran and prophet muhammad s. a. w to the class," she said.
based on ms nurul's record of an instagram story posted on 28 july 2017, the date of the incident, among the comments mr tan had reportedly made were "only animals will treat their children like how allah does to his people" and "what type of father tells you to worship him five times a day and threatens to send you to hell if you don't?".
such remarks, she said, were merely "the tip of the iceberg".
to worsen matters, mr tan had singled out ms nurul — who was sitting in the front of the class — and asked her if she agreed with him.
"i could barely open my mouth amidst his continuous sweeping statements.
i was barely 17, fresh out of 10 years of madrasah trying to assimilate into the new secular environment," she lamented.
the situation had "escalated so badly" that ms nurul ended up sitting outside on the floor of the corridor with her classmate, merick while waiting for his "unsettling speech" to end.
merick had initiated the walk-out, according to ms nurul.
ms nurul noted that she made a complaint regarding the incident with mr tan, but no action was taken.
touching on why she went public with her story after mr tan's identity was revealed in the recent viral case, ms nurul said that she "can only imagine how many more times he had been racist and islamophobic in the institution of education over the years".
"after his suspension is over, he might return to the classrooms.
he should not be allowed back," she stressed.
"a racist islamophobe has no place educating our youths.
"particularly taking into consideration mr tan's position as a senior lecturer, it is crucial that such instances of bigotry are thwarted from the start to prevent "strife, prejudice, and racism" resulting from the spread of "sweeping misconceptions" about a particular faith, said ms nurul.
"my ex-classmates did their best to help me find evidence.
more people are coming out to testify.
more people are showing support.
we may still be far from utopia but the fact people are thinking, trying and taking action means we are definitely on the right path," she concluded.
a post shared by nurul fatimah binti iskandar (@_new_rule_)in the recent viral video, mr tan had publicly accused mr dave parkash of "preying on chinese girls" while the latter was on a night out with his girlfriend.
mr dave clarified that he is half-indian and half-filipino, while his girlfriend — who recorded the incident — is half-chinese and half-thai.
undeterred by mr dave's reply, the man continued his verbal abuse against mr dave, saying: "i got nothing against you staying in singapore.
""the only thing is you are preying on chinese girl, i tell you the chinese won't like it," while admitting that he himself is "racist".
the man also accused mr dave's girlfriend of "disgracing me", saying that the interracial couple should date people of their own race instead.
"you don't see a chinese guy preying on an indian girl," he further said to mr dave.
mr tan teaches at np's school of engineering.
he appears to have been awarded the long service medal in 2019 under the annual national day awards, as listed on prime minister's office website.
an np spokesperson told channel news asia on monday that the polytechnic is aware of the video and has suspended him from teaching duties.
"we regret that the individual in question is a member of our staff," said the spokesperson.
they added that the polytechnic takes "a very serious view" of the matter, as the remarks are "highly offensive, disrespectful and go against our staff code of conduct and values as a community".
"we are investigating this matter internally, including considering the appropriate disciplinary action to be taken.
meanwhile, the staff in question has been suspended from his teaching duties," the spokesperson added.
the incident is currently under police investigations.
the police confirmed on sunday that reports had been lodged and that a 60-year-old man was assisting with investigations into the incident.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
source: the sun dailykuala lumpur, malaysia — the united malays national organisation (umno) is opposed to any extension of the current state of emergency in malaysia, says party president ahmad zahid hamidi after an audience with king al-sultan abdullah on friday (11 june).
ahmad zahid told reporters outside the national palace here today that he had mooted the prospect during his hour-long audience with sultan abdullah "to ensure the country's democratic system is defended".
"it was obvious that even without the emergency, the government could previously handle matters related to fighting the covid-19 pandemic," he added.
while calling for an end to the emergency, the bagan datuk member of parliament (mp) also proposed the resumption of parliament sittings.
"umno believes that parliament is an important official platform to voice the people's concerns (on matters such) such as loan moratoriums, i-sinar and i-lestari 2.
0 and other forms of assistance for everyone," he said.
ahmad zahid is one of several politicians who have openly spoken up against the state of emergency and the suspension of parliament, the latter of which is enabled by the former.
parti keadilan rakyat president anwar ibrahim in january filed a suit against muhyiddin and the federal government, on the grounds that the latter had allegedly advised the nation's king to suspend parliament sittings during the state of emergency.
malay mail reported that in a separate statement filed in court, anwar had argued that the suspension of parliament under emergency powers blocks parliament's freedom to ensure transparent debates, government accountability, and proper checks and balances on the executive branch of the government in making and enacting laws during the pandemic.
anwar was also one of the politicians who have met with the king this week.
he was granted an audience with sultan abdullah with parti amanah negara president mohamad sabu and democratic action party (dap) secretary-general lim guan eng — all component parties of the pakatan harapan coalition.
former prime minister mahathir mohamad, whose parti pejuang tanah air political party has yet to be registered, also had a meeting with the king, during which he proposed the setting up of a national operations council (mageran) in the present circumstances.
mageran was set up after the 13 may racial riots in 1969 to restore the rule of law and order in the country.
several political leaders have since challenged dr mahathir's proposal to establish mageran.
ahmad zahid told reporters that the idea of mageran should have been brought forth at the start of the emergency period.
he added that he did not discuss the mageran issue with the king.
"i feel it is something normal outside the scope of the existing situation because the emergency is supposed to cover it but it has been used to achieve other purposes," said ahmad zahid.
in a joint statement on friday, anwar, mohamad sabu, and lim said that their objection is grounded in their belief that for a parliamentary democracy to truly function, the emergency must be lifted and parliament must be allowed to reconvene.
"the solution to the people's problems in relation to covid-19, the economy and even politics requires a democracy that functions well, and the best avenue to hear out their grievances and to find solutions to them is parliament," they said.
klang mp charles santiago also called for the end of the emergency and for parliament sittings to resume via both physical and virtual means.
in a tweet on friday, the dap politician wrote: "don't make a mockery of parliamentary democracy.
end emergency, reconvene parliament via physical & virtual sessions.
"santiago also expressed his objection against mageran in the same tweet, saying: "no to noc.
"don't make a mockery of parliamentary democracy.
end emergency, reconvene parliament via physical & virtual sessions.
no to noc.
— charles santiago (@mpklang) june 11, 2021prime minister muhyiddin yassin in march defended the emergency proclamation, stating that it is not a tool for him to cling on to his position but a pre-emptive move in managing the covid-19 situation in the country.
the emergency would be lifted earlier than its scheduled end on 1 august if the government is able to control the pandemic situation in the country, he added.
"if the independent special committee says [the emergency] can be put to an end earlier, i will just follow that.
we also do not want to be under restriction by such regulations forever," said muhyiddin.
sultan abdullah is slated to discuss the emergency and the covid-19 situation with eight other rulers in a special conference next wednesday (16 june).
the king's succession of physical meetings with political leaders this week is set to end on friday.
he is slated to have a virtual meeting with sarawak's ruling party gabungan parti sarawak on monday.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
beijing (reuters) china's government said on friday (june 11) it welcomed taiwanese to come and get vaccinated against covid-19.
it also called on taiwan to remove obstacles and allow its people to receive chinese vaccines which it says are highly effective.
china claims democratically ruled taiwan as its own territory and has repeatedly offered to send vaccines to the island, which is battling a spike in domestic infections but has expressed concern about the safety of chinese shots and has not cleared them for use.
china's taiwan affairs office said in a statement that two chinese-made vaccines had been granted emergency use authorisation by the world health organisation and its shots were in use or approved by more than 90 countries, showing their safety and efficacy.
taiwan people can come to china to get vaccinated against covid-19, provided they strictly comply with china's pandemic control measures, the office said.
it urged taiwan's government to "quickly remove artificial obstacles for mainland vaccines being sent to taiwan and allow the broad mass of taiwan compatriots to receive the safe and highly effective mainland vaccines".
about 62,000 taiwanese had been vaccinated in china as of may 31, the office added, though many taiwanese live and work there already.
only 3 per cent of taiwan's 23.
5 million people have received at least one shot, though millions of doses are on order.
japan donated 1.
24 million astrazeneca shots last week and the united states has pledged 750,000 doses, which have yet to arrive.
still, china's offer is not likely to be attractive to many taiwanese.
a poll by taipei's national chengchi university last month showed that most people would not be willing to get a chinese vaccine.
a taiwan security official looking into chinese activities told reuters that the offer was another example of a beijing influence campaign to sway public opinion on the island.
"this could be attractive for some people, but the problem is not many people can afford the costs," the official said, pointing to the expense and weeks in quarantine needed to travel between taiwan and china.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
drunk and falling asleep, sy yong da, 26, was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a woman who was walking along a sheltered footpath in farrer road.
but instead of stopping, sy drove home and had his car towed to a workshop to cover up what he had done.
the victim was a domestic worker, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, who was later found dead at the scene.
she was married and had two sons, aged eight and 19, in the philippines.
yesterday, sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
two other charges of failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
ms ocampo was on her way home from the market at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, when sy, driving a silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on the 70kmh road, veered across two lanes and crashed into the footpath.
ms ocampo was flung into a pillar.
sy got back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
when he got home to his condo in spanish village, he called a towing company and had his car towed to a workshop in kaki bukit at about 7.
30am.
it took five investigation officers to track him down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder, at the scene.
when questioned, sy took the officers to the workshop.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash.
he had also taken a female friend for a meal and driven her home at about 5.
35am.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
cleaners in singapore will see their salaries increase each year over six years from 2023, after the proposals made by the tripartite cluster for cleaners (tcc) on cleaning wage ladder were accepted by the government earlier on monday (7 june).
starting from 2023 to 2028, the base wages for cleaners who are singaporean and permanent residents will go up on a year-on-year basis.
under the progressive wage model (pwm), the increase will be for cleaners across all job levels and it will rise up to between s$1,570 and s$2,210 in 2023.  the amount will subsequently increase by at least s$170 annually until 2028. for example, a full-time general or indoor cleaner will be entitled for a monthly wage of s$1,570 in july 2023.  this means the worker gets a pay hike of s$258, which is nearly 20 percent increase from the recommended salary of s$1,312 in 2022. on the other hand, the recommended annual increments for pwm from 1 july 2020 to 30 june 2023 was 3 percent a year.
the basic salary of cleaners has gradually went up over the years, and now it stands at s$1,236.
under the pwm, it is expected to go up to s$1,274 in july this year and to s$1,312 in july 2022. based on this new wage adjustments, workers in different categories like restroom cleaners and healthcare cleaners will be paid at least s$1,795 yearly.
higher-skilled employees such as supervisors and mechanical drivers will be given at least s$2,210.
it is said that this new system will benefit about 40,000 resident cleaners hired by more than 1,500 cleaning businesses.
"this is a timely and necessary review to recognise the importance and higher value of work shouldered by our cleaners, particularly during the covid-19 pandemic," said tcc and the national trades union congress (ntuc) in a joint media statement on monday.
the pwm is created to raise the wages of lower-wage workers by upgrading their skills and increasing their productivity, and it has been a licensing condition for cleaning companies since 2014. according to ntuc, a survey conducted in 2020 found that almost all respondents pointed out that the job of cleaners has become more important, and 95 percent expressed that they should be paid higher.
this is also the first wage review that takes reference from the tripartite workgroup on lower-wage workers' objective to ensure that wage growth is "ambitious enough to close the gap with workers earning median wages".
"in this pandemic, most of our workers, or cleaners are out there on the frontline .
.
.
we really need to show a commitment and our gratitude for what they've done, keeping singapore safe," said member of parliament mohd fahmi aliman (pap-marine parade).
he added, "i strongly urge all stakeholders to play a part in ensuring that our essential services workers in the environmental service industry can work with dignity.
"on monday, it was also announced that training guidelines for cleaners to get at least two workforce skills qualification (wsq) certificates in environmental cleaning modules or the equivalent have to be fulfilled by december 2022.
"this will help cleaners ensure their personal safety when carrying out cleaning tasks, especially with the increased cleaning demands and standards brought on by covid-19," said tcc and ntuc.
after 2025, the number of wsq that general cleaners are required to complete will be increased to three.
as for those in higher job roles, they must complete four modules.
chairman of the tcc and ntuc assistant director-general zainal sapari noted that the proposed wage ladders was made after extensive discussion and consultations with industry stakeholders.
besides justifying the value of the work cleaners do, the "aggressive wage increase" also tries and hopes to narrow the gap between their wages and the salaries of other workers, said mr zainal.
as for whether there's a target percentage of the media salary that cleaners' pay should eventually be pegged to, mr zainal asserted that it is "premature", but noted that the goal is for the annual wage increase to be higher than the median annual increase so the salary gap can be narrowed.
additionally, mr zainal also said that the wage increase is done to also attract the younger generation into the industry.
"we want to attract a younger workforce into this industry.
we want this to be a possible career that they can consider, compared to going into the gig economy," he noted.
president of the environment management association of singapore tony chooi pointed out that he hopes the people of singapore would not pick a job as a cleaner as their "last resort".
"we are trying all ways to see how we are able to build the industry into something that is more attractive," he said.
when asked if the higher salaries will cause cleaning companies to hire more foreigners instead, mr zainal said that this should not happen as the sector is regulated by the dependency ratio ceiling which is basically a quota for hiring singaporean workers, channel news asia (cna) said.
upon reading this news, netizens commented in the facebook page of channel news asia (cna) asking why is the wage increase not happening now, but only in 2023.  they said that this salary increment is "long overdue" and it should be implemented now so cleaners don't suffer more from the current "below sustainable income".
others slammed the authorities as they noted that the gradual salary hike is still lower than other developed nations like japan.
one user even noted that the wages of cleaners in european countries, the us and taiwan are higher than white-collar managers.
separately, a number of online users called for the government to implement a "minimum wage" for all low-skilled jobs.
they said this is so the workers are not cheated, be given basic benefits like medical subsidies and more.
a couple of them asserted that the pwm should also be applied to other industries as many employers have been underpaying their staff.
one user noted that by increasing salaries of singaporeans and permanent residents in other sectors, it will "(debunk) the myth typically coined that local can't work tough jobs".
responding to the authorities point that they hope an increased salary for cleaners will attract the youngsters into the industry, netizens asked if politicians will allow their kids to be a cleaner in the first place.
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a cyclist who punched a lorry driver in a road rage incident was fined $5,600 on thursday (june 10).
jeffery todd martin, 57, a canadian and a singapore permanent resident, pleaded guilty to one count each of voluntarily causing hurt and riding his bicycle without due regard for the safety of others.
at about 10.
20am on feb 24, 2019, martin was cycling in jalan eunos when a lorry overtook him.
he later overtook the lorry, pointing at the driver as he did so, and stopped in the middle of the lane in front of the vehicle.
this caused the lorry to stop amid moving traffic.
martin got off his bike and hit the driver's window, hurling vulgarities at the driver as he did so.
the lorry driver, chinese national zhang ping, 33, then moved his vehicle sharply towards martin, forcing him to step away.
zhang alighted from the lorry, holding an orange flask as he approached martin.
once confronted, martin punched him in the face, causing zhang to fall.
martin later cycled away as zhang remained in a daze sitting on the road.
zhang suffered cuts on his lips as a result of the punch, and was given medical leave for two days.
he was previously dealt with, and was jailed for a week for one count of a rash act endangering others.
a 30-second video of the incident had gone viral after the incident in 2019, and zhang had been arrested within 48 hours.
the same video was played in court on thursday.
after playing the video for the court, deputy public prosecutor emily koh said the prosecution would not be pushing for a custodial sentence, as the attack was one of low harm and culpability.
district judge brenda tan noted that prior to the punch, it was zhang who had come out from the vehicle to confront martin.
she said that while the custodial threshold had not been crossed, a high fine was warranted.
for voluntarily causing hurt, martin could have been jailed for up to two years on top of the maximum $5,000 fine he received for the charge.
for not riding his bicycle in an orderly manner with due regard for the safety of others, he could have been jailed for up to three months and fined up to $1,000.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: while the announcement of an impending easing of pandemic curbs brought relief to some business sectors, several players in the food and beverage industry expressed disappointment at having to wait a little longer.
the covid-19 multi-ministry task forceannounced on thursday (jun 10) that singapore will exit the current phase 2 (heightened alert) measures in two stages.
some activities including facials and saunas will be allowed to resume from jun 14, while others such as dining-in at f&b establishments will only start from jun 21, provided the covid-19 situation remains under control.
ms hazel chua, a supervisor at birdie num num gastrobar, told cna that after thursday's announcement, the eatery had to cancel and reschedule customers' reservations.
many had indicated that they would visit the restaurant on the day of their original booking to do takeaways instead.
a few regulars had also taken the initiative to reschedule their reservations after learning about the phased reopening, she added.
"maybe because we half-expected it already, we didn't feel too much of a shock.
just told ourselves to take it easy, and (it is) just another week or so," she said.
ms chua estimates that business has dropped about 80 to 90 per cent in the past month.
"we serve our own food, but there are a lot of people who come here and they drink beer .
.
.
so i think they come here, mostly a lot for the environment as well.
although this time we adapted to it, we did takeaway for draft beers, we still saw the decline in our revenue for sure.
"for the owner of french restaurant the masses, there was a bit of "sadness" when he found out that dining-in may only begin on jun 21.
"but at the end of the day, i believe we have already pulled through that so-called one month," said mr dylan ong.
"i think waiting on another week more, mainly it's just to be sure.
"the restaurant had been working with the expectation that dining-in would resume on jun 14. f&b operators continuing to "haemorrhage"in a statement released on facebook on thursday, the restaurant association of singapore's president andrew kwan said that he was "disappointed" that the restrictions for dining-in would not be lifted from jun 14 "as was keenly hoped for".
"our f&b operators are continuing to haemorrhage with each extended day of 'no dine-in'.
members shared that the weekly burn rates to cover manpower and rentals alone range from a few thousand to over half a million dollars," mr kwan said.
"every additional day of low-to-no revenues will be the proverbial straw that breaks the camel's back.
"while mr kwan noted his appreciation for the government's extension of the jobs support scheme, which subsidies local workers' salaries, he urged other stakeholders like landlords to "step up" and "jointly share in the huge impact sustained by their tenants".
"without the ability to generate regular revenues, tenants are simply unable to pay full, unmitigated rentals," he said.
mr kwan also requested priority vaccinations for staff in the f&b sector who are in daily contact with the public.
"they are frontliners who are performing the mission critical role of feeding our population on a daily basis.
we must protect them as they go about carrying out their tasks faithfully.
""hawkers will be feeling quite disappointed"hawkers had also been hopeful that dining-in would resume on jun 14 and had been preparing for it, said chairman of the federation of merchants' associations singapore's (fmas) hawker division anthony low.
"from the past one month, quite a number of hawkers have been struggling.
so (with) the extension for one more week, i believe many of the hawkers will be feeling quite disappointed," he said.
while the government had provided support for rentals, table-cleaning and centralised dishwashing services for phase 2 (heightened alert), hawkers were unsure if this support would cover the additional week from jun 14.
"we will try to put up the request, because even (an extension) of seven days without the table-cleaning fee .
.
.
would be at least some relief for us," he said.
terry neo, founder of kopifellas, a chain of several food and drinks stalls, said that he had "mixed feelings" on the jun 21 reopening.
"we were definitely hopeful that we could start on the 14th, but at least on the other hand i'm glad that it's only just one week more," he said.
"we're just crossing our fingers because if things head south again then we probably will not even open up on the 21st.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
italy got their euro 2020 campaign off the mark with an impressive 3-0 win over turkey in the curtain-raiser for the postponed continental tournament in front of their home fans in rome on friday.
playing their first major tournament in five years after failing to qualify for the 2018 world cup, all the goals came in the second half in front of a stadio olimpico that was filled to a quarter of its capacity.
merih demiral's own goal put italy ahead before ciro immobile and lorenzo insigne netted for roberto mancini's side in the group a opener.
the win capped an emotional night in the italian capital which saw 16,000 fans return to the stadio olimpico.
"it was important to start well in rome and i think it's a satisfaction for the public and for italians," said mancini, whose side are now on a 28-match unbeaten run.
"there was a lot of help from the crowd.
it was a beautiful evening, i hope there are many others, but there are still six more for wembley.
""we were hoping for another result, but italy was dominant," said turkey coach senol gunes.
"the first goal changed things in the second half and we lost control of the game.
"there was a party atmosphere, with a spectacular sound and light show and firework display before kick-off for the opening of the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries.
there was a performance by the italian national police orchestra, a parade of huge inflatable balloons on the pitch, tenor andrea bocelli sang 'nessun dorma' before a virtual performance from martin garrix, bono and the edge.
former italy world cup winners alessandro nesta and francesco totti, who played for lazio and roma during their careers at the stadio olimpico, carried the ball to the centre of the pitch before kick-off.
berardi impresses -on the pitch, italy dominated early on with a three-man attack led by immobile, who plays for lazio.
the 31-year-old had several near misses in the first half, coming up against a solid turkey defence who held their own.
turkey could also thank goalkeeper ugurcan cakir for pulling off a big save on 23 minutes, tipping over italy captain giorgio chiellini's powerful goal-bound header off an insigne corner.
italy finally got on the scoreboard eight minutes after the break when the unfortunate demiral found himself in the path of a federico berardi cross for immobile, the juventus defender bundling the ball into his own net.
leonardo spinazzola had a chance for a second minutes later, with immobile sending the rebound wide.
immobile finally got his goal, his 14th for italy, and first in a major tournament, in the 66th minute, scoring from a rebound after cakir had saved from spinazzola.
and insigne curled in the third with 11 minutes to go.
sassuolo winger berardi had a role in all three goals, with italy scoring three for the first time in a european championship match.
all three italy forwards proved efficient on the night with a defence organised around juventus veterans chiellini and leonardo bonucci holding firm, securing a ninth straight clean sheet.
"we struggled at the start, we tried to accelerate but we hit a wall," said immobile.
"in the second half, they were a little more tired, they tried to rush us but the spaces opened up, and we saw our quality at that time.
"gianluigi donnarumma was largely unworried in the italy goal apart from a dangerous burak yilmaz cross after half an hour and a solo run by cengiz under after coming off the bench after the break.
"from a tactical point of view, italy was superior," said gunes.
"italy mastered the pitch and the ball.
they suffocated us with pressing and high pace, and they took advantage of playing at home.
"we have to react now.
"italy, looking for a second european title after 1968, next play switzerland in rome on wednesday, with 2008 semi-finalists turkey taking on wales in baku.
ea/jcchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
få den bedste forsikringspakke med hus, indbo, ulykke og bilthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore a football talent scout thought another man was making a rude gesture, and attacked the latter near his daughter's school in a road rage incident.
for that, marco paulo goncalves guimaraes, 43, has been jailed for three weeks.
the portuguese man was also fined $1,000 for not wearing a mask.
he pleaded guilty to the two charges on thursday (june 10) and was ordered to compensate the victim.
guimaraes is a fifa licensed players' agent who scouted for talent here and in the region to play in european football clubs.
he came to singapore in 2004 and founded the football management international company in 2010. on july 11 last year, at about 1pm, he went to pick his seven-year-old daughter from oasis primary school in punggol.
he drove along edgefield plains, the road just outside the school, intending to wait with other cars along the road for his daughter.
but another driver honked at him along the road.
after he gave way, he thought he saw the man make a rude gesture with his finger while driving past.
guimaraes then tailed the man in his car, confronting him without a mask on, at the loading bay of a nearby housing block.
as the victim was alighting from his car, guimaraes pushed the car door, causing it to hit the victim's shin.
he also grabbed the victim's wrist and they began arguing.
when the victim got out of his car, guimaraes pushed him.
the court heard that guimaraes hurled vulgarities at the victim throughout the encounter and put on a mask only when the victim started taking a video with his phone.
guimaraes also slapped the victim at the side of his head and kicked him before the police arrived.
on thursday, the court was told that guimaraes was deeply ashamed of his conduct and was pleading for leniency.
for voluntarily causing hurt, he could have been jailed for up to two years, or fined up to $5,000, or both.
for not wearing a mask without a reasonable excuse, he could have been jailed for up to six months, or fined up to $10,000, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: students from singapore could be given priority to travel to australia to pursue or complete their studies when the infrastructure for safe travel is in place, said australian prime minister scott morrison on thursday (jun 10).
speaking at a joint press conference with mr morrison following the in-person leaders' meeting that took place earlier on thursday, prime minister lee hsien loong said the two discussed how two-way travel between the countries can eventually resume in a safe and calibrated manner "when both sides are ready".
this can "start small" with an air travel bubble "when ready", said mr lee in his statement, which was broadcast live on his facebook page.
"we need to prepare the infrastructure and processes to get ready to do this.
it starts with mutual recognition of health and vaccination certificates, possibly in a digital form.
when all the preparations are ready, we can start small with an air travel bubble to build confidence on both sides," he added.
there is still some time before singapore and australia "reach that milestone", but the two countries will be "getting on with the job" of putting systems in place that will enable such a bubble to emerge between singapore and australia, similar to the one between australia and new zealand, said mr morrison.
"but in addition to that .
.
.
giving priority to students from singapore to be able to return to australia to complete their studies and to engage in their studies," he added.
"and for the students from singapore .
.
.
a first opportunity to see increased travel between australia and singapore realised, and for that to occur sooner rather than later.
"this is the sixth singapore-australia leaders' meeting.
mr lee and mr morrison held their previous meeting in march last year by video conference because of the covid-19 pandemic.
mr morrison's trip to singapore is the first official visit by a foreign leader since the start of the pandemic.
travel bubble conditionsresponding to a question following the prime ministers' statements, mr morrison said singapore is the first country outside of new zealand that australia wishes to engage in a travel bubble with.
adding that australia's system for digital vaccination certificates had just gone live, he said: "and we get it right in singapore, which we know we can do, because of the very sophisticated systems that singapore has.
""and with some encouragement from prime minister lee, we really do want to focus on those students coming .
.
.
as part of the exercise piloting how these systems can work most effectively when we get to the next phase .
.
.
but the timing of that is still somewhere away.
""quite a number" of students from singapore study in australia and some students came home due to the covid-19 pandemic, said mr lee.
these students in singapore are unable to go back to australia to resume their studies, and "there's urgency for them", he added.
"especially for those of them who have got clinical attachments or postings, and to be unable to take them up, it's very, very disruptive to their studies.
"mr lee said he also suggested to mr morrison that these students could be one way to test the safe travel systems and "get a pilot going so that we can widen the project", and later on implement a full travel bubble between singapore and australia.
"there's no timetable, but we hope it can be done as soon as possible.
"vaccination rates and covid-19 transmission rates will be considered when setting up the travel bubble, said mr lee during the press conference.
"i would say that in singapore, we are making good progress with our vaccination program.
in australia, they're also steadily vaccinating the population.
and i think once the majority of the population is vaccinated, it becomes much easier for us to contemplate these openings," he added.
the prevailing transmission rates will "certainly be a factor", said mr lee.
"what we want to do is to get the preconditions infrastructure ready, the vaccine recognition, what are the standards, what are the conditions.
then the actual decision to do it, that is a political decision.
but let's get everything teed up, so that we are in the position to make the political decision when we want to do so," he added.
neither singapore nor australia has identified a benchmark vaccination rate that would influence the decision on an air travel bubble, said mr morrison, adding that this would be dependent on the advice of the medical community.
defence and fintech partnershipsaddressing other areas of partnership between singapore and australia, mr lee noted that the two countries' treaty on military training and training area development came into force in december 2020.
"this was a milestone in our longstanding defence partnership," he added.
"singapore greatly appreciates australia's generous and sustained support for saf's training.
over many years, in many air bases and camps all over australia.
"the bilateral digital economy agreement between the two countries also came into force in 2020, said mr lee.
"this was the fruit of our forward looking, open and progressive attitudes towards trade and the future economy," he added.
building on the agreement, the two leaders will commence discussions to develop a fintech bridge between the two countries, said mr lee in his opening remarks.
singapore and australia are also exploring collaborations on low-emissions solutions to support climate change efforts, said mr lee.
"this is another key domestic priority for both of us, and it includes a public-private partnership on low emissions fuels and technologies for shipping and port operations, based at nanyang technological university's eco labs.
"we are also exploring a broader partnership on a green economy agreement.
this will facilitate trade and investment in environmentally sustainable goods and services, and strengthen environmental governance and our capacity to address climate change.
"downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
kuala lumpur: malaysia's movement control order, known as mco 3.
0, will be extended for another two weeks from jun 15 to jun 28. senior minister for defence ismail sabri yaakob announced in a statement on friday (jun 11) that the decision to extend the mco 3.
0 was made as daily case numbers still exceeded 5,000.
"the positive/negative list (permitted and prohibited activities) and standard operating procedures (sops) for every manufacturing, business and industrial activity still remains as announced before this," he said after attending a national security council meeting.
in may, a nationwide mco was re-imposed in malaysia amid a third wave of covid-19 cases.
known as mco 3.
0, all economic sectors were allowed to operate during the period but cross-district and interstate travel as well as social, sports and educational activities were prohibited.
stricter restrictions on the economic and social sectors were later announced on may 21 as community cases continued to rise.
the emergence of new variants have also delayed efforts to flatten the infection curve, the prime minister's office had said.
on may 28, prime minister muhyiddin yassin announced that the country would go intototal lockdownfor 14 days beginning jun 1, with only essential economic and service sectors allowed to carry on with their operations.
case number breached the 9,000-mark on may 29, before the lockdown measures brought daily infections down gradually.
on friday, a total of 6,846 cases were reported.
if the first phase of total lockdown could reduce the number of daily cases, then the country would ease into a four-week second phase, where more economic sectors would be allowed to reopen.
phase 3 would be similar to the movement control order (mco) that has been enforced in the country, where nearly all economic sectors are allowed to operate with strict sops.
the progression from one phase to another would be subject to the ministry of health's risk assessments.
as of friday, malaysia's national covid-19 tally stood at 646,411. downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore as singapore moves to phase three (heightened alert) from next monday (june 14), gyms and fitness studios will have to wait a little longer to find out if they can resume their indoor operations.
the multi-ministry task force (mtf) said on thursday that if the coronavirus situation remains under control in the coming weeks, gyms and fitness studios will be allowed to resume indoor mask-off sports activities with safe management measures in place from june 21. these measures include social distancing of at least 2m between individuals and at least 3m between groups of up to five people.
indoor and outdoor sports classes can also be carried out in multiple groups of five, with a cap of 30 people, including the instructor.
participants will be allowed to unmask if they are doing strenuous activities, but are encouraged to remain masked where possible.
under the current heightened measures for phase two, which took effect on may 16, only low-intensity physical activities such as yoga and pilates can take place at public and private gyms and fitness studios.
organised programmes and classes for low-intensity activities have been allowed to carry out their sessions only in groups of two.
singapore fitness alliance president sean tan said the latest announcement was a pleasant surprise for the industry as many had not expected activities that did not require the wearing of masks to resume so soon.
tan, who is also the director of true group, said: "in general the fitness industry has been elated with today's announcement as we will reopen on june 21 with a masks-off policy, and that is a huge relief.
"it underscores the government's belief that the fitness sector is an important one, and we can get back to getting people back in our gyms and studios to resume their fitness regimens.
"he added that the extension of the job support scheme (jss) to help sectors that are required to remain closed till june 20 was helpful and was welcome by those in the industry.
the affected sectors will receive 10 per cent jss support from june 21 to 30. when indoor activities in gyms and fitness studios are allowed to resume, staff from these places where clients are unmasked will be required to undergo regular covid-19 testing.
this is part of the regular fast and easy testing regimen for staff involved in "higher-risk mask-off" activities, which will be introduced in july to reduce transmission during phase three (heightened alert).
tan acknowledged that it was something the industry would have to abide by in order for businesses to reopen and believes that it would give members the confidence to return to gyms.
but while the government will cover the cost of testing over the next three months, he expressed concerns about the added costs for gyms and fitness studios beyond that as they have already seen their revenues heavily impacted by the pandemic.
the operating costs for many outfits have already increased due to enhanced cleaning, disinfecting and sanitisation measures.
he added: "we hope that the testing costs will not be prohibitive, and that there can be more support for these costs.
"mass participatory sports events such as runs could also be allowed to resume from june 21, with a maximum of 250 participants if pre-event testing is implemented.
if participants are not tested before the event, only 50 people will be allowed to take part.
from next monday, spectators will be allowed to return to sports events such as football's singapore premier league or mixed martial arts outfit one championship's shows.
the number of spectators will be capped at 250 attendees with pre-event testing, while no testing is required for events with 50 or fewer attendees.
a spokesman from the football association of singapore said: "as the spl is only due to resume next month, the football association of singapore will continue to monitor prevailing measures in place and will decide the conditions for re-entry of spl fans into match venues closer to the league's resumption period.
"read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore four people are being investigated for abusing enforcement officers and safe distancing ambassadors (sdas), and not complying with safe distancing measures.
the three men and a woman, aged between 25 and 54, allegedly committed the offences in three separate incidents, said a police statement on friday (june 11).
one of them, ng chwee hock, was charged on friday for using insulting words against a public servant at redhill food centre on thursday.
the 46-year-old's case will be heard again on july 9.
"preliminary investigations revealed that (ng) allegedly used abusive language towards the sdeo, when he was advised not to sit at the table in the food centre to consume his food and drinks," police said.
sdeo refers to a safe distancing enforcement officer.
ng purportedly refused to comply even when police officers advised him to do so, and continued to verbally abuse the sdeo.
police told the straits times that he is currently under investigation for other unrelated offences.
in another incident on may 26, police received a report from an sda that a man taunted her while she was on duty in crawford lane.
he allegedly approached the sda, pulled down his mask and asked her to catch him.
another woman is said to have then approached the sda, pushed her on her shoulder and stepped on her foot.
both the man and woman then fled the scene.
police said the identities of the man, who is 54, and the woman, who is 25, were established through investigations.
they are assisting with investigations for using criminal force, voluntarily causing hurt and flouting safe distancing measures.
the third incident occurred on may 27 when police were alerted to a dispute involving a group of men at a void deck in yishun street 11. officers spotted the men allegedly gathering, with beer cans strewn across a table beside them.
a 39-year-old, who wanted to leave as officers were interviewing the group, allegedly became rowdy and hurled vulgarities after he was told to stay put.
he purportedly punched another man in the group when the latter tried to calm him down.
he was arrested for using abusive language against a public servant and causing annoyance while drunk.
the group will also be investigated for breaching safe distancing measures.
individuals found guilty of using abusive words against a public servant can be jailed for up to a year, or fined up to $5,000, or both.
for breaching safe distancing measures, a first-time offender may be jailed up to six months, or fined up to $10,000, or both.
those convicted of using criminal force can be jailed up to three months, or fined up to $1,500, or both.
for voluntarily causing hurt, an offender may be jailed up to three years, or fined up to $5,000, or both.
the offence of causing annoyance while drunk carries a maximum punishment of six months' jail and a fine of $1,000.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the workers' party (wp) member of parliament (mp) for sengkang grc jamus lim took to facebook on wednesday (9 june) to share his views on the government's latest announcement of increasing the wages for cleaners in singapore.
on monday (7 june), the government revealed that the salaries of cleaners who are singaporeans and permanent resident (pr) will go up each year over six years from 2023, under the progressive wage model (pwm).
based on pwm, the increase will be for cleaners across all job levels and it will rise up to between s$1,570 and s$2,210 in 2023.  the amount will subsequently increase by at least s$170 yearly until 2028. for example, a full-time general or indoor cleaner will be entitled for a monthly wage of s$1,570 in july 2023.  this means the worker gets a pay hike of s$258, which is nearly 20 percent increase from the recommended salary of s$1,312 in 2022. commenting about the pwm, mr lim said it is will affect the salary structures of about 30,000 workers.
"this new policy specifies different wage progression paths for different categories.
by 2028, the lowest-wage category will have a gross pay of s$2,420, which will be above the #workersparty universal minimum wage (mw) call of s$1,300 take-home full-time equivalent," the mp noted.
however, he expressed that his main issue with the pwm is on how slow it has been rolled-out, as well as its lack of guarantee that the minimum wage of those in the lowest-wage sector/category will hit the s$1,300 take-home amount.
"in other words, we should get the minimum wage bit of the so-called minimum wage-plus (mw+) model—what senior minister tharman called the pwm—right.
then tinker with productivity ladders, increments, whatnot.
don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good.
"so, i view this implementation of pwm as substantial progress (no pun intended) that will improve the welfare of singaporeans and permanent residents.
this, of course, has been the premise behind fighting for minimum wages all along," stated mr lim.
if that's not all, the progressive salary increment of cleaners would also mean that other prices will go up, said the alternative party member.
"from a town council perspective, future contract bids will be higher, which could affect town council finances and impact s&cc charges (fortunately, we are locked into contracts for around 3/4 #sengkanggrc divisions)," he explained.
but, this is a good thing for the society because minimum wages help "correct imbalances in employer-employee bargaining power", the politician said.
"the small increase in prices that everyone pays vastly improves the lives of low wage, essential workers.
moreover, higher prices can beget quality.
we often think of how, if workers raise their productivity, this will beget higher wages.
but it could happen the other way round: when wages rise, it spurs investments that foster productivity, which in turn boosts quality," he expressed.
he continued, "i hope that we can implement the mw+ model to even more sectors, and phase in changes more quickly.
still, we should recognize this policy move for what it is: a genuine step in the right direction, along the lines of what the #workersparty has sought.
#makingyourvotecount. "
© 2006 2021 the online citizen© 2006 2021 the online citizen
the pandemic has been particularly cruel to families separated by distance – with borders closed and travel tedious and costly, some never have the chance to hold their loved ones.
greg lim-lange is glad he had the chance.
singapore: it is not normal for a son to ask: "when is my mother going to die?"
or "will i be able to see her before the inevitable fate that awaits us all sooner or later?
"but i have had to ask this difficult question because like many people, i live thousands of miles away from my mother.
i have lived here for 12 years, while my mother, who turns 85 this year, lives in germany.
since the beginning of the pandemic, my singaporean wife and i had been waiting for countries to control the virus, for travel to "normalise", and to able to fly and meet her.
but by may 2021, i hadn't seen her in almost two years.
for those of us separated from families, there were windows of hope that could have enabled a trip home relatively low covid-19 numbers in singapore, a potential travel bubble via hong kong where business opportunities there mean we can avoid a lengthy quarantine after spending some time there, and vaccines being rapidly developed.
but not only did numbers increase, the travel bubble burst twice, dashing many hopes.
the fluidity in the covid-19 situation has meant unpredictable changes to travel restrictions since last year.
at the height of the pandemic for instance, singapore closed its borders to all short-term visitors.
this year, when the mutant strains raised infection numbers again, singaporeans and permanent residents had to test negative before flying back.
even if we took the risk to travel, there was a nagging fear – what if during my travel, i catch the virus and then bring it home to my mum?
or what if i pass it on to my wife?
how long should i wait before it is safe – knowing that there would never really be a "right time"?taking the risk to travelthe good news is vaccinations became available and my mother was first in line to receive her shots in freiburg, a small city nestled in the black forest in the south of germany.
i myself got fully vaccinated by may.
the possibility of a trip came into sharper focus.
however, there were still logistical challenges and uncertainties involved in making the trip.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
should i go alone or go together with my wife?
what if there is another outbreak and singapore changes entry re-entry requirements?
how about work – we could not be away indefinitely and needed contingency plans.
my wife and i decided to travel together.
it helped that we are self-employed and could do some work remotely.
yet, shortly after we booked our tickets and just days before our departure, things took a turn for the worse.
germany went into a hard lockdown as numbers there spiralled.
the new and more contagious variants of the virus also arrived in singapore.
germany required a negative pre-flight covid-19 test no earlier than 48 hours before arrival.
with pcr tests taking up to two days to process, we scheduled not one but two tests to be taken just in case of a rare false positive.
it would be terrible to have come this far and then be turned around at the airport before we could enter germany.
meanwhile the new restrictions in germany to stop transmission meant that all restaurants, shops, and hotels were closed and there was even a curfew in place from 10pm to 6am every night.
so again, there was the concern of being infected and the thought of whether we should still go or postpone came to mind.
we had just 12 hours to decide.
all our covid-19 tests had come back negative and we stuck to what mattered most – using this opportunity to see my mother, who had been waiting for two years to be reunited with us.
an eerie journeyit was an eerie journey through empty hallways at changi airport with personnel in full ppe, and always a niggling concern in the back of my mind whether we would be let through the immigration controls in germany.
with a pandemic that throws up spikes in cases without warning, what was the chance of new regulations mid-flight barring all visitors or new quarantine requirements which so far had not been the case in germany?perhaps it was good that our anxieties were also hidden behind our masks that we were required to wear for the entire flight except for mealtimes.
this clearly wasn't joyful travelling as it used to be.
in the end, the journey there went smoothly, the immigration officer glanced at our test results and apologised for the new restrictions and we got through immigration within minutes.
after a two-and-a-half-hour ride on a strangely empty autobahn, we arrived at my mother's home.
she burst into tears of joy hugging me tightly after being separated for so long and my wife caught this moment of pure joy on camera.
our journey to germany really brought home the point that we are wired to connect with our loved ones physically.
no video call can ever replace the feeling of being held by a loved one or the taste of a mother's meal.
my mother had already been cooking our favourite dishes for a week before we arrived in anticipation.
the return journeyonly a few days after arriving in germany, the compulsory 14-day quarantine in singapore was changed to 21 days.
then there was a big cluster at changi airport and we started to worry if the airport might be closed under a new circuit breaker.
the following week we learned that non- singaporeans or prs would not be allowed to re-enter singapore until august.
for some of our international friends currently travelling, that meant that they could not even return to their business or loved ones in singapore.
my wife and i remained apprehensive about our journey home – our children were waiting for us.
we kept checking online if any new requirements cropped up before boarding our flight home.
we made it back safely and changi airport was even emptier than we remembered.
well-organised as always, immigration and testing upon arrival went quite smoothly as a small army of helpful guides walked alongside us and directed us to every station we needed to pass, from immigration to swab test to our shuttle bus.
was this arduous journey filled with twists, turns and worries worth it?i would say yes – my time with my mother was so very precious.
the two weeks we were there went by so quickly.
i didn't have the courage to tell her how much death was on my mind or how my fears of uncertainty were bothering me.
i simply stayed with her, listened to her, ate all her lovingly prepared dishes and held her tight.
i know we are very privileged to be able to spend the time and the money needed to see our loved ones.
my heart goes out to the many more who are stuck in this pandemic limbo with one lockdown after another, still connecting using technology and yearning for the time they can take a trip to finally hold each other again.
dr gregor lim-lange is the co-founder and chief psychologist of forest wolf an expert on clinical and positive psychology, social emotional intelligence and mental health.
with schools moving to home-based learning, the dining-in prohibition, and social gatherings being capped at two people during phase 2 (heightened alert), we've had fewer reasons to head out and more reasons to stay in.
but has this led to more couples getting it on?
going off all the condom hoarding going on during last year's circuit breaker period, you might expect a spike in bedroom activity this time around too.
well, according to a straw poll conducted by asiaone of 16 sexually active adults between the ages of 18 and 44, that might not necessarily be the case — only 12 respondents said that they are still sexually active during this period.
of those who are sexually active, though, some have seen an improvement in their sex lives thanks to a surge in sexual activity.
one such individual is damien*, who went from having sex once a week to getting at it daily.
attributing the change in behaviour to "boredom", damien shared that in general, he has a neutral stance towards sex and does not feel like it is a crucial factor in the relationship.
but with the increase in sex, his relationship with his partner has become stronger during this period, he said.
[[nid:529380]]another respondent whose sex life has improved is sharon*, who feels like the pandemic has given her more opportunities to spend time with her partner.
she shared that to her, sex is "essential and intimate, as it's something you only share with someone you're in a relationship with".
overall, the amount of sex she has with her partner hasn't changed and they're still doing it around twice a week.
however, she said that with "less face-to-face work and social obligations", they have "more time to focus on each other", which translates to better sex.
unfortunately, not everyone shares the same sentiments.
around a quarter of our respondents noted deterioration in their sex lives ever since phase 2 (heightened alert) kicked in.
one such individual is jazymn*, who cites her hectic work schedule and rising stress levels as a reason.
while she and her partner still are sexually active, their quality of sex has dropped thanks to the stressors brought on by the pandemic.
and couples aren't the only ones who are struggling.
lisa*, who is not in a relationship, told us that the pandemic has affected her sex life too.
to her, sex is all about the "fun and pleasure".
prior to phase 2 (heightened alert), she would have sex around thrice a week with her friends with benefits.
sadly, when the new restrictions kicked in, this meant less sex for her.
"i can't meet my friends with benefits as much," she said.
while having less sex has left some of our respondents unsatisfied, others are pretty chill about the situation.
singles like h* and wn* don't think of sex as a huge priority and to h, "sex is just a way to relieve stress", so he isn't too fussed about how often he gets to engage in the act.
for him, it all depends on "the availabilities of [his] friends with benefits".
when asked about how his sex life has been affected during phase 2 (heightened alert), wn, who is single, simply said: "it depends on who i manage to get. "
and for some, the physical connection isn't the only thing that has gone through changes during this period — the emotional aspect of the relationship feels different too.
[[nid:524562]]take felicia*, for example.
she told us she still has sex with her partner once a week, and overall, their sex life has remained pretty much the same.
however, when it comes to the emotional part of their relationship, she feels that the pandemic has actually helped to improve their connection and they've "become closer".
bob* is another individual who said that spending more time at home has not changed the amount of sex he gets, and he still does so once a week.
however, his situation is quite the opposite of felicia's.
"spending more time together than usual results in more opportunities but less excitement," he admitted.
apart from that, there are other issues for him to deal with.
"my 'working spouse' appears to be a different person," he confessed when asked about how the pandemic has affected his relationship.
but at the end of the day, it all boils down to adapting to the new norm and riding through these hard times.
one such couple who have managed to do so is nicholas* and his girlfriend.
while they now have fewer opportunities to meet and spend time together, the decrease in sex does not bother them whatsoever.
instead, they make up for the lack of physical intimacy by gaming and meeting more often online.
in these extraordinary, fluid times where things are always changing, it's important to be able to react and adapt to new and different situations.
while it definitely isn't easy, it's heartening to know that we're not alone.
*not their real namesmelissateo@asiaone.
com
the call came as the leaders of the g7 group met friday in cornwall, england.
(file)a top chinese diplomat on friday condemned washington's "small circle" diplomacy, state media reported, in a phone call with us secretary of state antony blinken as g7 leaders met for their first in-person summit in nearly two years.
yang jiechi, the chinese communist party's chief diplomat, told blinken that "genuine multilateralism is not pseudo-multilateralism based on the interests of small circles".
"the only genuine multilateralism is that founded on the principles of the charter of the united nations and international law," yang told blinken, in their first one-on-one talks since acrimonious china-us discussions in anchorage in march.
the call came as the leaders of the g7 group -- the united states, the united kingdom, france, canada, germany, italy, and japan -- met friday in cornwall, england, with the challenge posed by china top of the agenda.
the us administration of joe biden has maintained a firm line against china, and hopes to rally allies to counter beijing on trade, technology and human rights -- particularly in the restive region of xinjiang, where washington has accused china of genocide.
yang on friday hit back against those claims, urging the united states to "resolve its own grave human rights violations and not use so-called human rights issues as a pretext to arbitrarily interfere in the internal affairs of other countries".
(except for the headline, this story has not been edited by ndtv staff and is published from a syndicated feed.
)track latest news live on ndtv.
com and get news updates from india and around the world.
watch live news:follow us:.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
advertisement .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
singapore: working from home will remain the default arrangement, even as singapore transitions to phase 3 (heightened alert) in the coming weeks.
"employers should ensure that employees who are able to work from home continue to do so," said co-chair of the covid-19 multi-ministry task force lawrence wong on thursday's (jun 10) press conference.
"we think that's still necessary in order to minimise movement and to minimise risk," he said.
companies should continue to stagger start times of employees and implement flexible working hours, said mr wong, who is also the finance minister.
workers also should not be cross-deployed to multiple worksites, added the ministry of health (moh) in a press release on thursday.
the government announced on may 14 thatworking from home will become the default for workplacesafter a spike in covid-19 community infections.
it was part of a slew of measures under phase 2 (heightened alert) aimed at bringing down the number of cases.
on when people will be allowed to resume working from offices, mr wong said on thursday that authorities will take a "phased approach".
"the embers are still there, we do not want to encourage too much movement.
we resume activities progressively but we do not want everything to happen all at the same time," he said.
the government will monitor the situation over the coming weeks, the minister said.
should cases remain "generally low and under control", vaccination rates rise and a "good and comprehensive testing regime" is in place, it may reconsider its position on working from home, he added.
jobs support scheme extendedthe jobs support scheme (jss), which subsidies local workers' salaries, will be extended for certain sectors that are required to remain closed until jun 20, said mr wong.
this is part of the staggered reopening under phase 3 (heightened alert), where some sectors will not be allowed to reopen until jun 21. they will receive 10 per cent jss support from jun 21 to jun 30. activities reopening on jun 21 include dining-in at f&b establishments, live performances, mask-off sports activities at gyms and fitness studios and in-person tuition and enrichment classes.
for taxi and private-hire drivers, the covid-19 driver relief fund will be extended for three more months at s$300 per month per vehicle for two months and s$150 for per vehicle for the next one month.
the continued support adds up to s$40 million and will help more than 50,000 taxi and private hire car drivers, said the land transport authority.
on top of this, taxi operators have pledged to continue providing rental waivers of at least s$12 million during this three-month extension of the support scheme.
regular testing for staff in unmasked activitiespeople who work in high-risk settings with unmasked customers will have to undergo regular covid-19 testing, regardless of their vaccination status.
this includes staff of dine-in f&b outlets, personal care and appearance services that require removal of masks such as facials, saunas and make-up services, and gym and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.
mandatory tests will be progressively rolled out to larger establishments first and extended to smaller businesses after.
for dine-in f&b outlets, testing will be rolled out starting from next month.
the capacity for the fast and easy testing regime will be "aggressively ramped up" in the coming months, moh said.
tests such as the antigen rapid test will be used.
the cost of the tests will be covered by the government for the next three months, said mr wong.
this is in view of the heightened alert period and that people, especially those in high-risk settings, are tested frequently, he said.
"beyond that, i think employers themselves will have to start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their business continuity plans," he said.
more details of the mandatory testing will be announced later, the health ministry said.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore: a man was jailed two weeks on friday (jun 11) for assaulting his wife after she rejected his request for a sexual favour.
calvin kok chong meng, 32, pleaded guilty to one charge of committing family violence against his wife when she had a personal protection order against him.
a second charge of voluntarily causing hurt to his wife was taken into consideration.
the court heard that the victim had obtained a personal protection order against kok on jan 18, 2017 after he hit her.
on mar 17, 2021, kok had a couple of alcoholic drinks after returning home from work at around 11.
30pm.
at about midnight, he went into the room where his wife was sleeping and asked her for a sexual favour.
when his wife rejected him, he got upset and began hitting her, according to court documents.
the victim was underneath the blanket on the bed when kok began slapping her several times on her thighs and arms.
that same day, the victim sought medical attention for her multiple bruises, which included bruising over her head, face, neck, arms and thighs.
she also lodged a police report.
the prosecutor asked for two weeks' jail, noting that kok's wife has since forgiven him and they are going for matrimonial counselling.
kok, who did not have a lawyer, requested for a lighter sentence with no jail, saying he would lose his job if he was imprisoned.
he said he needed the job to support his family, including his daughter and grandmother.
he asked for a chance to turn over a new leaf and said his wife was in court to mitigate for him if need be.
the judge responded: "yes, but she was not willing to be intimate and you were violent towards her.
"she added that the high court has indicated that jail terms must be imposed for cases like kok's.
kok replied that he understood and promised not to reoffend in the future.
for breaching a protection order, he could have been jailed up to six months, fined up to s$2,000, or both.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore ion orchard will be shut for four days from saturday (june 12) for cleaning and disinfecting works after the ministry of health (moh) confirmed a number of covid-19 cases linked to the shopping mall.
it is the first mall in the popular orchard road shopping belt to do so amid the pandemic.
the mall will be closed from 7am on saturday till 7am on wednesday.
on friday, moh reported that a 57-year-old woman who works as a promoter at guardian in ion orchard had tested positive for covid-19.
currently an unlinked case, she is the third worker at ion orchard to test positive for the virus, prompting moh to close the mall until june 16. the other two cases linked to the mall are a retail assistant who works at the four leaves outlet there and a repair worker at grandwork interior.
ion orchard confirmed that it was notified by the authorities to close for four days in light of the recent rise in covid-19 cases.
during the closure, the mall will carry out deep cleansing and disinfection of its premises in line with guidelines issued by the authorities.
"during this period, shoppers or members of the public will not be allowed to enter the mall," it said.
however, both ion orchard link and ion paterson link, which are underground pedestrian networks, will remain accessible round the clock.
epidemiological investigations indicate ongoing transmission within the mall, according to a notice to tenants on friday.
moh said special testing operations will be conducted for staff who had been working at the mall from may 28 to disrupt any undetected community transmission.
members of the public who had visited the shops or used the services and facilities at ion from june 3 to friday will also be offered free covid-19 testing.
those who had only walked through the mall to connect to neighbouring buildings or orchard mrt station need not be tested.
the ministry said shoppers who visited the mall from june 3 to june 11 should monitor their health closely and minimise social interactions as far as possible, for two weeks from their date of visit.
they are also encouraged to see a doctor immediately if they feel unwell.
both ion orchard link and ion paterson link, which are underground pedestrian networks, will remain accessible round the clock.
st photo: gin tay

staff were seen packing up at shops in ion orchard on friday (june 11) evening.
photo: lianhe zaobao
ion orchard told the straits times it has implemented various cleaning measures since the coronavirus outbreak started.
these include increasing the frequency of cleaning and disinfecting of key touch points in the mall's common areas such as lift buttons, hand-rails and auto-door panels.
hand sanitisers are also provided at the mall entrances, lifts and concierge counters.
"the safety and well-being of our shoppers, visitors, and working communities are of utmost importance to us.
we will continue to monitor the situation and work closely with the authorities on the necessary precautionary measures," said the mall.
"for the period of the mall closure, our tenants will receive the necessary support, including rental waivers, to help them ride through this period.
"tenants have up to 6pm on saturday to remove the stocks from their store.
mr james quan, who owns leather goods store bynd artisan, was informed of the closure at about 5pm on friday.
the 53-year-old was told that testing for the staff would be done in the mall's carpark.
"i think this is the right thing to do, to make sure that safety comes first and ensure that the coast is clear," he said.
"so i think it's better to just close for four days and hope everything will return to normal on june 16.
"read the full moh press release here.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
climate impact x is a welcome addition to the country's climate action initiatives that provide new economic opportunities, help price discovery and can aid future compliance, say energy researchers.
singapore: singapore took another big step in advancing the green agenda last month.
the country on may 20 announced plans to position itself as a hub for carbon services.
climate impact x (cix) is a joint venture between the development bank of singapore, singapore exchange, standard chartered bank and temasek holdings.
first envisioned by the emerging stronger taskforce's alliance for action on sustainability, cix will provide a marketplace for trading carbon credits commencing in late 2021. singapore is well-suited to hosting a carbon marketplace.
it is an ideal base for multinational companies working on projects that generate emission credits across the region.
as a regional leader for commodities trading, singapore also deals with many energy majors and traders who will form a large part of the clientele for carbon market ancillary services.
there are already around 30 firms here offering carbon consulting services, which include low-carbon project development, consulting and verification for the registration of certified emissions-reduction credits, carbon footprint measurement, project financing and legal services.
the launch of a carbon marketplace can attract more of such consultancies in a key growth industry.
(what will cix bring to the table of carbon trading and climate action?
find out on the climate conversations.
)a welcome addition to singapore's climate action initiativescix is a welcome addition to the suite of emission-cutting initiatives and institutions in singapore that helps the country accelerate its peak and net-zero emissions timelines.
under the paris agreement, singapore'snationally determined contributionis to peak emissions at 65 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent around 2030.  singapore also seeks to halve peak emissions to 33 million tonnes by 2050 and achieve net zero emissions as soon as viable during the second half of the century.
a key innovation of cix includes provisions for trading nature-based solutions.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
nature-based climate solutions like mangroves, wetlands and forests can absorb vast amounts of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.
a recent study by researchers at the nus centre for nature-based climate solutions estimates reforestation in southeast asia can contribute to 3.
4 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions reductions per year.
reforestation, coupled with supply chain transparency and harmonised standards for carbon offsets, can translate into a ready source of carbon credits.
as an exchange focused on such carbon credits, cix will enhance the climate finance ecosystem within singapore and expand the range of mechanisms for firms to manage and price their carbon externalities.
google, microsoft and amazon are said to be in talks to use cix in their journey to become net-zero emitters.
moreover, it offers another way for singapore to widen the international scope of its environmental management activities.
the right price for carboncix can aid with the adjustment of singapore's carbon tax – which came into effect in january 2019 – by expanding the array of tools used for pricing carbon in singapore.
this will permit the singapore government some freedom when discussing future, probably upward revision to the current tax, since local firms will have the ability to defray their "carbon costs" in other ways.
the current tax rate of s$5 per tonne of co2 can be contested for three reasons.
first, the abatement costs are typically considered much higher, and ideally, carbon price would reflect the cost of abatement.
a world bank report published in may notes that a price of us$40 to us$80 (s$50 to s$100) per tonne of co2 is needed to meet the 2 degrees celsius goal.
second, the s$5 price tag might not fully capture carbon embedded in international supply chains and trade.
this has spurred debate around the need for carbon border adjustment mechanisms – a tool for ensuring that domestic and imported goods price their embodied emissions equally, thereby discouraging trade with high-polluting countries that do not have effective carbon pricing mechanisms of their own.
third, singapore's carbon pricing is arguably not a sufficiently liquid mechanism because it changes infrequently.
the government has plans to increase the tax rate to between s$10 and s$15 per tonne by 2030.  the tax level and trajectory post-2023 will be reviewed by 2022, in consultation with industry and expert groups in order to give businesses and opportunity to adjust to changes.
there is wisdom in introducing market-based mechanisms to facilitate the price discovery process and allow emissions to be priced into commercial decisions.
in the absence of such a mechanism, finding the right price for carbon is complex.
it requires striking a balance between reducing the carbon footprint of industries and increasing the costs of doing business, which may negatively impact the competitiveness of singapore's economy.
however, with the pandemic still evolving, the success of singapore's carbon services hub should not be assumed.
increased and quantifiable demand for carbon offsets also suggest an upward trend in emissions-intensive activities in the near term.
getting companies to play ballthe cix is also a first step to getting companies to play ball on singapore's climate obligations.
demand for carbon offsets could arise from several sources.
companies currently paying carbon taxes may purchase credits to defray their carbon tax liability.
similarly, firms or other speculators may purchase credits to trade later for a premium, should this be allowed under the carbon pricing act.
retail trade from individuals seeking socially responsible investment options can also be expected.
yet singapore must not forget there are no industry-level mandatory reduction targets.
many carbon commitments by corporations in the region are currently voluntary, which may limit market participation.
regulation can steward strong market participation.
with rapid global expansion of climate finance, compliance concerns have also grown because of "greenwash" – when companies over-inflate the environmental credentials of their projects.
the devil is in the details.
regulators must provide robust mechanisms for project verification, monitoring and compliance enforcement not only to prevent greenwash, but also to ensure fair benchmarking across all projects.
this could be industry initiated, where carbon credit and offset suppliers commit to co-develop and implement greenhouse gas quantification and reporting methodologies for their respective sectors.
regulators will then be able to assess the methodologies that improve transparency in carbon credit transactions.
having recognised the complexity of scaling up global carbon markets, the global institute on finance's taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets has launched a consultation on creating "high-integrity" markets, due to end in late june.
it seeks to establish "a threshold standard for high-quality credits, clear legal standards and uniting existing, fragmented carbon credit markets in one impactful, well-run system".
to ensure the integrity and quality of its credits, cix will work with global partners including the taskforce on scaling voluntary carbon markets and the natural climate solutions alliance.
it will also use cutting-edge data analytics, such as satellite monitoring, machine learning and blockchain technology to ensure the environmental integrity of credits traded on cix.
global rating agencies might be roped in to provide independent environmental ratings for nature-based projects which will issue carbon credits.
it is important singapore provides a well-run and trusted market for carbon offsets while expanding emissions-reduction efforts.
however, to meet its own national targets, companies must ultimately commit to less carbon-intensive production models and not simply "pay to play" by exploiting offsets.
melissa low is research fellow at the energy studies institute, national university of singapore.
david broadstock is senior research fellow and lead energy economist at the same institute.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
new york (afp) it sounds like a real-life take on "pinocchio" a us lobster fisherman says he was scooped into the mouth of a humpback whale friday (june 11) and yet lived to tell the story.
"i was in his closed mouth for about 30 to 40 seconds before he rose to the surface and spit me out," michael packard wrote on facebook hours after his brush with the depths.
"a humpback whale tried to eat me," he added.
"i am very bruised up but have no broken bones. "
packard's beyond-belief big fish yarn began, he told local paper cape cod times, when he was diving for lobster off the coast of the northeastern state of massachusetts.
"all of a sudden, i felt this huge shove and the next thing i knew it was completely black," he said after being released from the hospital.
he was about 35 feet down (10m) and his first thought was that he had been attacked by a shark, but the lack of teeth and obvious wounds made him reconsider.
packard said he began to struggle but unlike in the classic children's tale "pinocchio" there was no need to build a fire to secure his escape.
"i saw light, and he started throwing his head side-to-side and the next thing i knew i was outside (in the water)," packard told the paper.
the story says packard's fishing mate josiah mayo "saw the explosion of water as the whale surfaced and packard was ejected," but doesn't include any quotes attributed to him.
jooke robbins, director of humpback whale studies at the center for coastal studies in provincetown, massachusetts, said she had no reason to doubt the account.
"i didn't think it was a hoax because i knew the people involved.
.
.
so i have every reason to believe that what they say is true," she told afp.
robbins said she had never heard of an "accident" of this type, but "it may be that he (packard) was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. "
"when they (whales) fish.
.
.
they rush forward, open their mouth and engulf the fish and the water very quickly," she said, adding they have large mouths, but throats so narrow they wouldn't be able to swallow a human.
the whale, which according to mayo's description was on the young side, "may not be able to detect quickly enough that something is in the way. "
even if all the details weren't yet known, one thing was clear for robbins: "it is important for people to be quite aware.
.
.
and when they see a whale, keep a good distance.
it's really important to give whales their space.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: two eateries have been ordered to close, and two supermarkets fined for breaching covid-19 safe management measures, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment on friday (jun 11).
the closure orders will take effect when dining-in is allowed to resume, said the ministry.
the first eatery ordered to close is the starz bistro at 66 east coast road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 22, and consume alcohol after 10.
30pm.
the urban redevelopment authority (ura) has ordered the establishment to close for 10 days.
the second eatery is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant at 367/369 beach road.
it allowed customers to dine in on may 28 at 9.
30pm.
as this is its third offence, ura has ordered the establishment to close for 30 days.
singaporeimplemented tighter measures from may 16 to jun 13, including barring dining-in at food and beverage outlets.
two supermarkets were fined s$1,000 each for not having staff members to oversee the safe entry checkpoints: giant supermarket, located at bedok shopping complex and the cold storage outlet at siglap v. mse also said that since phase 2 (heightened alert) was implemented,77 individuals have been finedfor breaching safe management measures at parks.
agencies will also step up enforcement at hotspots where safe management measures are more frequently breached, including parks and hdb common areas, the ministry said.
on thursday, the ministry of health (moh) said that dining in can resume on jun 21 if the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, as part ofsingapore's plan to move to phase 3 (heightened alert).
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore — a review of the proposed singapore-hong kong air travel bubble (atb) is set for early july, said the ministry of transport (mot) on thursday (10 june), after its launch was previously deferred several times.
the launch was deferred from a target date of 26 may following a mutual agreement between minister for transport s iswaran and hong kong secretary for commerce and economic development edward yau, due to the worsening covid-19 situation in singapore.
mot noted that the situation in singapore has since improved, with the number of community cases and local unlinked coronavirus cases showing a downward trend.
meanwhile, the situation in hong kong continues to remain stable, with very few community cases over the past few weeks.
"both singapore and hong kong remain strongly committed to launching the atb safely.
we will continue to monitor the public health situation in both places closely," said mot.
the travel bubble was initially announced on 11 november 2020 to much fanfare, touted as the first of its kind in the region, or even the world.
however, just 10 days later, the original 22 november launch was suspended for two weeks due to a surge in covid-19 cases in hong kong.
it was later delayed indefinitely on 1 december "in view of the severity of the epidemic situation in hong kong with the number of local cases of unknown sources increasing rapidly," said the hong kong government.
separately, health minister ong ye kung, who co-chairs a multi-ministry taskforce on covid-19, told reporters at a virtual press conference that there are no "firm plans" for a travel bubble with south korea.
"i think it's actually good to continue discussions with different partners, regions and countries on what are the possibilities going ahead, but as of now i don't think there are any firm plans.
"ong was responding to a question about reports that south korea aims to expedite travel bubble talks with singapore to allow quarantine-free travel for fully vaccinated people from as early as july.
ong, who was previously transport minister, noted that the term "travel bubble" has often been loosely used.
in the case of singapore and hong kong, they are two "very safe regions" that want to form a free travel area, which involves pre-departure testing and on-arrival testing, without any quarantine when passengers arrive, ong said.
"in the case of south korea, i believe the concept has been a vaccinated travel bubble, which means if both regions have managed their infections up to a very low level.
.
.
and they are confident that if travellers are vaccinated, it's safe enough to travel with some precautions.
"he added, "i think these are concepts that we need to think about, for the medium term, and definitely not in this period, when we are just recovering from this wave of transmission and opening up in stages, but i think it's always good that we cast our minds several months down the road, because we do need to live our lives normally and resume normalcy.
"stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporerelated stories:1.
5m singaporeans aged 12 to 39 can register for covid vaccinations from fridaycovid: dine-in at f&b places can resume at max 5 per group from 21 junecovid: social gathering size can increase to 5 per group from 14 june – mtfchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
democrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenagnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore live performances, wedding solemnisations, and congregational and other worship services will be capped at 250 people with pre-event testing from monday (june 14), up from 100 people under the current restrictions.
the cap remains at 50 people without pre-event testing, and those who are fully vaccinated will be exempt from pre-event testing, said the ministry of culture, community and youth in a statement on friday (june 11) .
here are the details:from june 14, congregational and other worship services will be capped at 250 persons with pre-event testing (pet), and up to 50 persons without pet.
individuals who are fully vaccinated meaning, two weeks after receiving the second dose of the pfizer or moderna vaccine are exempt from pet.
for services with more than 50 worshippers, they must be segregated into zones of no more than 50 each.
worshippers can participate in permitted religious activities in groups of no more than five people, up from the two previously.
from june 21, a maximum of 30 persons are allowed to be involved in or support the conduct of live performance elements during the worship service.
of these, up to 10 persons are allowed to unmask at any given time, with up to five persons unmasked for singing or playing of wind or brass instruments.
persons should unmask only when required to perform their duties.
singing by worshippers, even with masks on, is still not permitted during phase three (heightened alert).
from june 21, religious organisations may use places of worship to conduct religious rites and resume other religious activities (for example, pastoral services and religious classes for adults and children) so long as they are conducted in gatherings not exceeding 50 persons, subject to safe distancing and other safe management measures appropriate to the nature of the religious activity.
this is also subject to the total premises cap of 150 persons.
from june 14, the audience for live performances will be capped at 250 people with pet, and up to 50 persons without pet.
individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from pet.
all performers must continue to be properly masked at all times on stage.
from june 21, performers will be allowed to unmask on stage, including for singing and the playing of wind instruments.
a maximum of 30 performers and crew will be allowed on stage and backstage at any given time, with a maximum of 10 unmasked performers.
of the 10 unmasked performers, a maximum of five can be unmasked for singing and playing of instruments that require intentional expulsion of air.
from june 14, marriage solemnisations may take place in places of worship with up to 250 persons with pet, or up to 50 persons without pet, subject to safe capacity limits.
individuals who are fully vaccinated are exempt from pet.
the cap excludes the solemniser and religious and supporting workers, though the numbers of these workers involved should be kept to a minimum.
from june 21, in-person tuition and enrichment classes for participants aged 18 and below, and classes in singing and wind instruments, may resume.
unmasking will be allowed in classes for dance, singing, wind instruments, voice training, and speech and drama, subject to prevailing safe management measures.
from june 14, museums can operate at a reduced capacity of 50 per cent.
tours within museum premises may be conducted for a maximum group size of 20 persons (excluding guide), with up to five persons allowed in any one sub-group.
a 1m safe distance should be maintained between sub-groups.
from june 21, limits on performers and crew at recordings of digital productions and their associated rehearsals will be raised.
a maximum of 30 performers and crew are allowed on stage and backstage at any given time.
this includes a maximum of 10 performers who can be unmasked at any given time.
of the 10 unmasked performers, no more than five may sing or play wind instruments at any given time.
arts and cultural organisations will no longer need to notify the national arts council and the infocomm media development authority of their plans before proceeding with their digital productions and associated rehearsals if they adhere to these safe management measures.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
[update: june 12]article updated with zoe tay's response.
gift shopping for friends is usually a tricky business.
you want it to be personal, but also thoughtful and practical.
well, local actress zoe tay has probably given one of the best gifts of all — bras.
no joke, the mediacorp ah jie sent a care package to two of her celebrity friends, sharon au and local songbird stefanie sun.
the care package came with some bras, along with six bottles of fabric perfumes.
the contents were shared on instagram stories by both celebrities and stefanie had a rather cheeky response.
the 42-year-old wrote: "a sudden sweet surprise arrived.
ah jie, you really think too highly of (my size) hor.
"as for sharon, who is back in singapore till august and is currently serving out her quarantine at an orchard road hotel, she recalled her rookie days in showbiz and how zoe looked out for her.
she shared: "when i was a rookie in the industry and had to interview zoe, she knew i was nervous and made extra effort to be affable and reassuring.
now i'm all grown up and she continues to care and encourage.
"this is why she is our ah jie forever.
thank you for the surprise zoe.
"sharon, 45, also previously shared that zoe's presence at the hotel when she came to deliver the gift and some food caused quite the commotion.
based on the instagram tags from the celebrities, it seems that the lingerie might have come from amanda fashion gallery while the perfumes are from f'diary.
we reached out to zoe's manager for clarification, and zoe said she is not the brands' ambassador and is only supporting a friend's business.
also read: sharon au's serving quarantine at orchard hotel, zoe tay causes 'commotion' after sending food to herbryanlim@asiaone.
com
singapore and australia will work towards an air travel bubble, and both nations will lay the groundwork for resuming two-way travel in a safe and calibrated manner, said the prime ministers of both countries yesterday.
they also hoped that students from singapore could be the first to travel under a pilot arrangement so that they can continue their studies, which have been disrupted by covid-19 travel restrictions, before a full travel bubble is in place.
the leaders were speaking to reporters after prime minister lee hsien loong met his australian counterpart scott morrison at the istana for the sixth australia-singapore annual leaders' meeting.
this is the first official visit by a foreign leader to singapore since the start of the covid-19 pandemic, and mr morrison's second stop after new zealand last month.
at a joint press conference after their meeting, pm lee said they discussed the fight against covid-19 and resuming travel between the two countries.
"we discussed how two-way travel between singapore and australia can eventually resume, in a safe and calibrated manner, when both sides are ready," he said.
pm lee added that there is a need to prepare the infrastructure and processes for such travel.
he said: "it starts with mutual recognition of health and vaccination certificates, possibly in a digital form.
when all the preparations are ready, then we can start small with an air travel bubble to build confidence on both sides.
"echoing pm lee, mr morrison said that while there is some time before singapore and australia can open up the air travel bubble, the two countries are working on putting systems in place to do so.
the leaders also acknowledged the importance of open borders to post-pandemic recovery.
on students getting the first opportunity to travel, they said such a move could be a good opportunity to test the systems, before widening travel.
mr morrison said: "we really do want to focus on those students coming, as a first wave, a first tranche as part of the exercise of piloting how these systems can work most effectively when we get to the next phase.
"pm lee said he raised this matter with mr morrison specifically because "quite a number" of singaporeans study in australia and there is urgency for them to go back to school, especially for those who have secured clinical attachments or postings.
mr morrison said singapore is the first country outside of new zealand that australia would wish to engage in a travel bubble with.
"and we want to get it right in singapore, which we know we can do because of the very sophisticated systems that singapore has," he added.
pm lee noted that australia and singapore have similar approaches to keeping the virus out of their populations and keeping their people safe.
both countries also strongly supported each other during the early stages of the pandemic.
get the new paper on your phone with the free tnp app.
download from the apple app store or google play store now
the covid-19 vaccine task force of the u. s.  centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) stated that it has observed increased cases of heart inflammation in adolescents and younger adults, especially aged 12 to 24, following inoculation with authorized mrna-based covid-19 vaccines from moderna mrna, and pfizer pfe/biontech bntx.
several hundreds of cases of myocarditis and pericarditis, both conditions of heart inflammation, were reported to the u. s.  government's vaers (vaccine adverse event reporting system) following dose 1 of any mrna-based vaccine in the last two months.
please note that vaers is a national early warning system to detect possible safety problems in u. s.  licensed vaccines.
the number of cases increased further after the second dose of these vaccines.
moreover, the cases occurred in higher number of younger patients following dose 2 compared to dose 1.  the cdc stated that similar inflammation cases were not reported following vaccination with j&j's jnj adenovirus-based covid-19 vaccine.
per a reuters report, the israel's health ministry raised the alarm when it reported a likely link of heart inflammation in young men vaccinated with pfizer's bnt162b earlier this month.
following this report, the cdc and health regulators in other countries started investigating such cases.
although the number of reported cases is small compared to total inoculations with mrna vaccines, they were higher than expected in the younger age groups.
we note that the cdc is yet to link these adverse events to mrna vaccines and has scheduled a meeting of the advisory committee on immunization practices (acip) on jun 18 to discuss and assess the heart inflammation reports.
moreover, the government authority has recommended continuation of vaccination for everyone of age 12 or older given the risk of covid-19 illness and related complications.
however, we note that the cdc report also stated that more than 50% of heart inflammation cases were reported in the age group of 12-24 that has received only 8.
8% of vaccine doses.
this suggests that any adverse outcome from the acip meeting scheduled next week can hamper vaccination with mrna vaccines in the adolescent patient group, and hurt prospects of these vaccine developers.
however, the percentage of inflammation cases suggests that the risk from these vaccines is significantly lower than their benefits.
a cdc study claims that these vaccines are 91% effective.
moreover, most patients facing inflammation issues quickly felt better following medication and rest.
we remind investors that pfizer/biontech's covid-19 vaccine received authorization for emergency use in adolescents last month from the fda.
moderna filed for a similar authorization in the united states, europe and canada earlier this month.
meanwhile, pfizer and biontech have pledged two billion doses of their covid-19 vaccines to ensure equitable access to their vaccines globally.
as part of the pledge, the company plans to supply 200 million doses in 2021 and 300 million doses in the first half of 2022 to the u. s.  government at not-for-profit price.
the government will donate these doses to low- and lower middle-income countries and organizations that support them.
while moderna and pfizer carry a zacks rank #3 (hold), biontech sports a zacks rank of 1 (strong buy).
you can see the complete list of today's zacks #1 rank stocks here.
in addition to the stocks you read about above, would you like to see zacks' top picks to capitalize on the internet of things (iot)?
it is one of the fastest-growing technologies in history, with an estimated 77 billion devices to be connected by 2025.  that works out to 127 new devices per second.
zacks has released a special report to help you capitalize on the internet of things's exponential growth.
it reveals 4 under-the-radar stocks that could be some of the most profitable holdings in your portfolio in 2021 and beyond.
click here to download this report free >>want the latest recommendations from zacks investment research?
today, you can download 7 best stocks for the next 30 days.
click to get this free report johnson & johnson (jnj) : free stock analysis report pfizer inc.  (pfe) : free stock analysis report moderna, inc.  (mrna) : free stock analysis report biontech se sponsored adr (bntx) : free stock analysis report to read this article on zacks.
com click here.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
ion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
a hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatidemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringensingapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made olawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hoen elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
turns out the comic books were wrong.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
second minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. blaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre for
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore two food and beverage establishments have been ordered to close after breaching safe management measures.
steamov steamboat buffet restaurant in beach road will be closed for 30 days and the starz bistro in east coast road for 10 days, said the ministry of sustainability and the environment (mse) on friday (june 11).
meanwhile, 77 people have been fined for breaching safe management measures (smms) in parks under tightened covid-19 rules that came into effect on may 16.  the curbs will gradually ease starting on june 14. two retail outlets giant supermarket at bedok shopping complex and cold storage supermarket at condominium siglap v near east coast road have been fined $1,000 each for not having staff to oversee their safe entry checkpoints.
with dining in slated to resume from june 21, government agencies will step up enforcement at f&b establishments and take firm action against any breaches of covid-19 rules, said the mse.
such breaches include the failure to maintain a 1m safe distance between groups and to prevent them from intermingling, allowing group sizes larger than five people, serving and allowing the consumption of alcohol after 10.
30pm, and providing live entertainment and games.
"enforcement actions will include fines, closures even for first offence, and the revoking of food shop, public entertainment or liquor licences," said the ministry.
it reminded patrons and operators of f&b establishments to strictly adhere to safe management measures as these places are high-risk settings where coronavirus transmission has taken place in recent weeks.
mse also said the national parks board will continue to temporarily close access to some parks and sections of beaches, lawns and facilities such as hardcourts, shelters and carparks when these areas get too crowded or where people remain non-compliant with safe management measures.
nparks has advised  compliance with safe management measures on more than 6,000 instances to parkgoers who were not wearing masks, and on more than 800 occasions to people who had gathered in groups of more than two, added the ministry.
these were verbally given by enforcement officers.
the latest breach is steamov steamboat buffet restaurant's third offence.
it had allowed customers to dine there at 9.
30pm on may 28. the starz bistro had done so on may 22, and also allowed customers to consume alcohol after 10.
30pm that day.
mse said the closure orders for both eateries will take effect when dining in is allowed to resume.
it said that agencies have identified places where safe management measures are more frequently breached and have stepped up enforcement presence there.
these hot spots includes parks and common areas of housing board estates such as hardcourts, basketball courts and pavilions.
"where repeated breaches of smms have been observed, agencies will close off facilities to ensure the safety of the community," added the ministry.
for example, a pavilion at block 90 pipit road was cordoned off on may 31 after a group of more than 12 people were found gathering there for dance sessions on multiple occasions.
"we therefore urge members of the public to use these facilities responsibly," said mse.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
by evan simko-bednarski, cnnupdated 0223 gmt (1023 hkt) june 12, 2021  (cnn)a cape cod lobster diver is safe friday, following a fluke encounter with a humpback whale that nearly made him the leviathan's lunch.
singapore: a door-to-door salesman who stole a woman's s$200 bikini that was left outside her flat to dry was fined s$1,000 on friday (jun 11).
joash kuan yao wei, 25, who has since quit his job, pleaded guilty to one count of theft.
a second charge of possessing six bras and seven tank tops suspected to be stolen was taken into consideration.
the court heard that kuan was going door to door at an hdb block in pasir ris carrying out sales promotions at about 7pm on oct 22, 2020. he went to the victim's home on the second floor and rang the doorbell several times.
while doing so, he saw a bikini hanging on a bamboo pole outside the flat and formed the intention to steal it, said the prosecutor.
as there was no response from the unit, kuan took the black bikini and left.
however, the victim, a 41-year-old woman, saw him take the bikini through the peephole of her door.
she opened the door and shouted at him to stop, the court heard.
kuan stopped but threw the bikini at a nearby staircase before returning to the victim's flat.
the victim later found her bikini and called the police.
he was arrested and other stolen items were found in his ang mo kio flat, including six bras and several tank tops.
the prosecutor asked for a fine and said kuan has no previous convictions.
when the judge asked kuan why he stole those things, he replied: "uh, why did i steal?
i stole because got the urge to.
""are you seeing any professional for help with regard to your urge to steal this?"
asked the judge.
kuan said he was not, but intends to.
he added that he has quit his sales job and is currently doing odd jobs.
he could have been jailed up to three years and fined for theft.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
bengaluru: an indian state has raised its covid-19 death toll sharply higher after the discovery of thousands of unreported cases, lending weight to suspicion that india's overall death tally is significantly more than the official figure.
indian hospitals ran out of beds and life-saving oxygen during a devastating second wave of coronavirus in april and may and people died in parking lots outside hospitals and at their homes.
many of those deaths were not recorded in covid-19 tallies, doctors and health experts say.
india has the second-highest tally of covid-19 infections in the world after the united states, with 29.
2 million cases and 359,676 deaths, according to health ministry data.
but the discovery of several thousand unreported deaths in the state of bihar has raised suspicion that many more coronavirus victims have not been included in official figures.
the health department in bihar, one of india's poorest states, revised its total covid-19 related death toll to more than 9,429 from about 5,424 on wednesday.
the newly reported deaths had occurred last month and state officials were investigating the lapse, a district health official said, blaming the oversight on private hospitals.
"these deaths occurred 15 days ago and were only uploaded now in the government portal.
action will be taken against some of the private hospitals," said the official, who declined to be identified as he is not authorised to speak to the media.
health experts say they believe both coronavirus infections and deaths are being significantly under-counted across the country partly because test facilities are rare in rural areas, where two-thirds of indians live, and hospitals are few and far between.
many people have fallen ill and died at home without being tested for the coronavirus.
"widespread problem"as crematoriums struggled to handle the wave of deaths over the past two months, many families placed bodies in the holy ganges river or buried them in shallow graves on its sandbanks.
those people would likely not have been registered as covid-19 victims.
"under-reporting is a widespread problem, not necessarily deliberate, often because of inadequacies," rajib dasgupta, head of the centre of social medicine and community health at new delhi's jawaharlal nehru university, told reuters.
"in the rural context, whatever states may say or claim, testing is not simple, easy or accessible," dasgupta said.
overall, india's cases and deaths have fallen steadily in the past weeks after a surge from mid-march.
the official total of cases stood at 29.
2 million on thursday after rising by 94,052 in the previous 24 hours, while total fatalities were at 359,676, according to data from the health ministry.
the new york times estimated deaths based on death counts over time and infection fatality rates and put india's toll at 600,000 to 1.
6 million.
the government dismissed those estimates as exaggerated.
but the main opposition congress party said that other states must follow bihar's example and conduct a review of deaths over the past two months.
"this proves beyond a doubt government has been hiding covid deaths, " said shama mohamed, a spokeswoman for congress, adding that an audit should also be ordered in the big states of uttar pradesh, madhya pradesh and gujarat.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the cape cod fisherman estimates he was in the beast's mouth for 30 seconds; experts say the encounter was a flukelast modified on fri 11 jun 2021 23.
32 bsta commercial lobster diver who got caught in the mouth of a humpback whale off the coast of cape cod on friday morning said he thought he was going to die.
michael packard, 56, of wellfleet, told wbz-tv after he was released from cape cod hospital that he was about 45ft (14 meters) deep in the waters off provincetown when "all of a sudden i felt this huge bump, and everything went dark".
he thought he had been attacked by a shark, common in area waters, but then realized he could not feel any teeth and he wasn't in any pain.
"then i realized, oh my god, i'm in a whale's mouth .
.
.
and he's trying to swallow me," he said.
"and i thought to myself ok, this is it – i'm finally – i'm gonna die. "
his thoughts went to his wife and children.
he estimates he was in the whale's mouth for about 30 seconds, but continued to breathe because he still had his breathing apparatus in.
then the whale surfaced, shook its head, and spat him out.
he was rescued by his crewmate in the surface boat.
his sister, cynthia packard, originally told the cape cod times that her brother broke a leg, but he said later that his legs are just bruised.
charles "stormy" mayo, a senior scientist and whale expert at the center for coastal studies in provincetown, told the newspaper that such human-whale encounters are rare.
humpbacks are not aggressive and mayo thinks it was an accidental encounter while the whale was feeding on fish, likely sand lance.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
it is heartening to read that the government has accepted the tripartite committee's proposal to increase the wages of cleaners, with a view to narrowing the income disparity between cleaners and other workers (cleaners to see their wages increase over 6 years from 2023, june 8).
however, the timeline of the wage increase does not seem to be in sync with the speed with which covid-19 has exacted a toll on this group of workers.
as we have seen, there has been a huge increase in cleaning demand since the onset of covid-19, and many workers are deployed in high-risk areas like hospitals and the airport, where they are subject to a much higher risk of infection.
while cleaners are slated to get 3 per cent annual wage increases from last year to next year under previous updates to the progressive wage model, i wonder if the latest updates can be tweaked to bring forward the well-deserved wage adjustment.
otherwise, it is not obvious how the lives of these lower-wage workers are being uplifted if they have to wait for two years before they can see any significant sign of the fruit of their hard work.
karen yip lai khamjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore twelve people are being investigated for their suspected involvement in illegal gambling activities and non-compliance with safe distancing measures after a police operation in bukit panjang.
officers from jurong police division conducted the operation at a residential unit in gangsa road on thursday (june 10) at about 9pm, the police said on friday.
they found seven men and five women, aged between 21 and 70, allegedly engaging in gambling-related activities there.
of the 12, a 55-year-old woman and a 53-year-old man were arrested for allegedly using the unit as a common gaming house.
three other women and another man, aged between 48 and 70, are being investigated for gaming in a common gaming house.
cash and gambling paraphernalia were seized as case exhibits, and police investigations are ongoing.
"the police take a serious view against all forms of illegal gambling activities and will continue to take tough enforcement action against those involved, in accordance with the law.
members of the public are advised not to engage in any form of illegal gambling and to comply with the prevailing safe distancing measures," the police said.
under the common gaming houses act, anyone found using a place as a common gaming house can be fined between $5,000 and $50,000, and jailed for up to three years.
anyone who games in a common gaming house can be fined up to $5,000, jailed for up to six months, or both.
those found guilty of not complying with safe distancing measures can be fined up to $10,000, jailed for up to six months, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore with some sectors facing an additional week of closure up till june 20, the current enhancements to the jobs support scheme (jss) will be extended for affected businesses such as food establishments that cannot yet resume dining in.
businesses that had to suspend many, if not all, of their operations because of the tightened measures during phase two (heightened alert) were given jss support of 50 per cent from may 16 to june 13.  this will be extended till june 20, the ministry of health said on thursday (june 10).
the sectors affected include food establishments, gyms and sport facilities, performing arts organisations and arts education centres.
they will get 10 per cent jss support from june 21 to june 30, the ministry added.
the scheme provides wage support to employers for the first $4,600 of gross monthly wages paid to each local employee.
in addition, the ministry of finance said that selected retail outlets, museums, art galleries and historical sites, affected personal care services, cinema operators, and family entertainment centres will continue to receive 30 per cent of jss support up till june 20.  this will be reduced to 10 per cent from june 21 to june 30.  the payouts will be disbursed in september.
the ministry of finance had announced on may 28 that the additional support measures, including wage subsidies and one-off payments for individuals and rental reliefs, will cost a total of $800 million.
singapore will reopen its economy in two phases from june 14, with food and beverage establishments, gyms and fitness studios to reopen from june 21, as they have been identified as higher risk.
"these are predominantly the activities where people are engaged in interactions without their masks on," said finance minister lawrence wong at a multi-ministry task force on covid-19 conference on thursday.
"if you look at it, it's f&b, it's gyms, fitness these are the higher-risk settings, and that's why we decided to wait for a full incubation cycle of low, stable numbers, and then we will be able to resume these activities on june 21.
"read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore — dining in at food and beverage establishments can resume from 21 june, provided the covid-19 situation remains under control in the coming weeks, the multi-ministry taskforce (mtf) on the pandemic said on thursday (10 june).
the measure was unveiled by the mtf at a virtual media conference as it announced that singapore will gradually move back to phase 3 (heightened alert) in two steps, with one set of measures taking effect from 14 june and another from 21 june.
f&b establishments are reminded to strictly observe at least one metre safe distancing between groups of diners of no more than five persons per group so as to mitigate the risk of transmission between unmasked persons, the ministry of health said separately in a statement.
"we will be significantly stepping up enforcement and will take firmer enforcement action for any breaches.
patrons are reminded to keep their masks on at all times, except when eating or drinking," moh said.
mtf co-chair lawrence wong, who is also finance minister, acknowledged that f&b operators would be disappointed by the prospect of having to wait one more week before they can re-open.
"i would ask all of them to make use of the one week to really go through their processes, their protocols, make sure that their restaurant layouts comply fully with the rules.
.
.
because we know that these are high risk settings.
"singapore is currently in phase 2 (heightened alert) reopening, which started on 16 may and will end on 13 june.
the mtf also announced the following measures taking effect from 21 june, on condition of the pandemic situation remaining under control:wedding receptions will be allowed to resume with up to 100 attendees including the wedding couple but excluding vendors, with pre-event testing (pet) required for all attendees.
for wedding receptions up to 50 attendees, pet is required only for all members of the wedding party of up to 20 attendees including the wedding couple.
the unmasking and singing/playing of wind instruments for live performances will be allowed, subject to relevant safe management measures, which will be released by the national arts council (nac).
singing and playing of wind instruments may also resume for live performances at congregational and worship services.
gyms and fitness studios may resume indoor mask-off sports activities, with safe distancing of at least two metres between persons and at least three metres between groups of up to five persons.
sports classes – both indoors and outdoors – will be capped at 30 persons, including the instructor, with groups of no more than five persons each.
class participants may unmask if they are engaging in strenuous activities, although they are strongly encouraged to remain masked where possible to reduce the risk of transmission.
sportsg will announce more details later.
in-person tuition and enrichment classes for those aged 18 and below will be allowed to resume with enhanced safe management measures.
the ministry of education will announce more details later.
higher-risk arts and culture classes such as singing, and wind instruments will also be allowed to resume.
the nac will announce more details later.
wong told reporters that, going forward, the government would take more "aggressive localised actions", such as snap lockdowns, in order to avoid having to impose general nationwide restrictions like another circuit breaker.
"we think that's the way to live with the virus, while enabling most activities to resume. "
stay in the know on-the-go: join yahoo singapore's telegram channel at http://t.
me/yahoosingaporeother stories:singaporean woman, 86, dies from covid-19; linked to ttsh clusterman who wanted to get married in china breached shn to appeal to icagurmit singh, actor in covid-19 jingle, fined $800 for speedingchina's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur the president of umno the biggest party in malaysia's ruling perikatan nasional (pn) government has proposed the ongoing state of emergency come to an end in august and for parliament to reconvene, in his audience with the king on friday (june 11).
"this is to ensure the country's democratic system is defended," datuk seri ahmad zahid hamidi told reporters following an hour-long meeting with sultan abdullah ahmad shah.
"it's obvious that the government in the past could deal with covid-19 issues without declaring an emergency," mr ahmad zahid said.
the king has been meeting political party leaders at the national palace since wednesday to discuss the pandemic and the government's handling of it.
mr zahid's stance came a day after former prime minister mahathir mohamad, during his own meeting with the king, proposed the setting up of a national operations council (noc) under the state of emergency.
he offered to lead the council.
dr mahathir said the noc, which governed the nation for two years after the may 13, 1969 race riots, allowed malaysia's second prime minister, tun abdul razak hussein, to "solve political problems at the time" by bringing in opposition parties to form a wider barisan nasional ruling coalition that had a stronger majority.
the king is meeting all political party leaders to hear their views about the covid-19 crisis in the country and the state of emergency that was imposed in january, with his consent, to allow the government to curb the spread of the pandemic.
it is due to end in august.
the crisis has worsened during the emergency period, with the country imposing its third lockdown which was due to end on june 14.  the government on friday announced that this would be extended by another two weeks to june 28 .
the king is also meeting the leaders of the malaysian indian congress, which is also part of the pn government, and parti bersatu sabah.
besides tun mahathir, he has met prime minister muhyiddin yassin, opposition leader anwar ibrahim, who is also head of parti keadilan rakyat, as well as other opposition leaders such as the democratic action party's mr lim guan eng and amanah's mr mohamad sabu.
friday is the final day for the face-to-face audience granted to political leaders, and an online meeting has been scheduled with sarawak's ruling party gabungan parti sarawak on monday.
the king will be meeting the country's eight other rulers in a special conference on june 16 to discuss the emergency and covid-19 crisis.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore: from next monday, dream cruises' world dream will resume its cruise operations at 50 per cent passenger capacity.
this comes after theministry of health's (moh) announcementthat the operating capacity of attractions, including the two cruises world dream and royal caribbean's quantum of the seas that have received prior approval from authorities will be increased from the current limit of 25 per cent to 50 per cent from jun 14.
"world dream will resume operating at the permitted 50 per cent passenger capacity where guests from different households may now enjoy the option of travelling in a group size of up to five," said dream cruises in a media release on friday (jun 11).
it added that from jun 21, guests may also enjoy dining-in and live performances at the cruises.
singapore is currently inphase 2 (heightened alert), after tighter covid-19 restrictions took effect on may 16, ending on jun 13.  under these measures, attractions had to reduce their operating capacity to 25 per cent.
dream cruises' president mr michael goh said that despite the heightened alert measures, world dream has "enjoyed robust sales in june and we are seeing limited availability of cruises in july".
"with the diligence of our crew to provide the safest environment for our guests on board, world dream has extended its proven track record as worry-free vacation option for singaporeans," added mr goh.
dream cruises and royal caribbean started offering cruises to nowhere in november and december last year respectively as part of apilot schemethat allows round-trips with no ports of call.
in december, aroyal caribbean's quantum of the seas cruise was cut shortwhen it turned back ahead of schedule after a passenger tested positive for covid-19.
the 83-year-old passenger later tested negative on two covid-19 tests after returning to singapore.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
canberra: australia will refurbish its ageing collins-class submarine fleet, the australian newspaper reported on friday (jun 11), as doubts over canberra's a$50 billion (us$38.
8 billion) deal for 12 new submarines built by french shipbuilder naval group grow.
australia in 2016 selected naval group to build a new submarine fleet to replace its more than two-decades-old collins submarines and significantly expand its military to protect strategic and trade interests in the asia pacific.
the deal, one of the world's most lucrative defence deals, has been beset by issues and delays due to canberra's requirement that the majority of the manufacturing and components be sourced locally.
as a result, australian defence officials to last month said they were undertaking "contingency planning".
casting further doubt over the deal with naval group, the australian reported the minister for defence peter dutton will order a refit of existing collins-class submarines.
"clearly there have been problems with the arrangements with naval group," dutton told the australian.
"there has been concern on both sides in relation to the programme and i need to make sure that we have the best capacity available to us.
"australian first discussed replacing its trouble-plagued collins class submarines nearly a decade ago.
the collins submarines were due to be retired in the next few years.
the first of australia's six collins-class submarines reaches the end of its lifespan in 2026.  this is several years before the first of the new fleet, a diesel-electric version of naval group's 5,000-tonne barracuda nuclear-powered submarine, is scheduled to be delivered.
the final new submarine will be operational during the 2050s.
australia's prime minister scott morrison will meet with french president emmanuel macron next week and the two are expected to discuss the submarine deal.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
singapore – indoor fitness activities will be allowed to resume from 21 june if the covid-19 situation in singapore remains under control in the next few weeks, the multi-ministry taskforce shared in a press conference on thursday (10 june).
gyms and fitness studios may resume indoor mask-off sports activities, with safe distancing of at least two metres between persons and at least three metres between groups of up to five persons.
sports classes (both indoors and outdoors) will be capped at 30 persons (including the instructor), comprised of groups of no more than five persons.
class participants may unmask if they are engaging in strenuous activities, although they are strongly encouraged to remain masked where possible to reduce the risk of transmission.
ken mok, the ceo of true group, shared with yahoo lifestyle sea that he was happy to hear the news: "we are happy and grateful that we can soon welcome our members back to our clubs with appropriate safe distancing measures in place.
while we have been conducting online and outdoor classes that have been very well received, our members have been raring to return to their regular fitness sessions.
"mok added that in line with safe management measures, their clubs are cleaned and sanitised every two hours: "we are committed to doing our part in keeping singapore safe, and we are waiting to hear from the authorities on the required testing regime.
prior to the recent closures, we clean and sanitise our clubs every two hours, which is above and beyond requirements.
we will continue to do so, and take other active steps to ensure the safety of our team and members.
"as for sarah stuart, owner of the f45 training jurong cbd studio, she remains hopeful about the news.
"we welcome the government's decision to allow indoor activities to resume and are prepared to comply with safe-distancing guidelines to ensure our wider community, including staff and members, remain safe.
as we await further details, we will continue to ensure contactless check-in at studios via our app, and ask all members to use our disinfection station upon entering the studio.
our format also allows for members to work at their own station with all the disinfected equipment they need to avoid sharing with any others," said stuart.
brad robinson, ceo of boutique gym chain ritual gym singapore, said that his members are itching to get back to a regular fitness routine, which also means "being able to use fitness equipment and not wearing a mask during exercise. "
"we are thrilled that restrictions are starting to ease, and that the national measures put in place proved to be effective.
the national vaccination drive along with easier testing options should allow us to get back to business as usual in short to medium term, which is very exciting," robinson said upon hearing the positive news.
balancing the new normal:sg phase 2 heightened alert: 10 f&b outlets that deliver familiar comfort food to your homesg phase 2 heightened alert: 11 restaurants that deliver a touch of luxe to your doorstepindonesian restaurant the rice table closing down after 24 yearsfoodies rally to patronise ailing elderly hawkers as diners asked to stay homeinterview: royal pek, co-founder of xian dan chao ren — 'i've sacrificed relationships with people i love'watch more yahoo lifestyle videos on yahoo tv:assembly by natasha brown review – a modern mrs dallowaya sparsely written debut about a black woman preparing for a party examines the disorienting experience of assimilation virtuosic debut .
.
.
natasha brown.
photograph: antonio olmos/the guardianevery year, i take a long walk with friends.
it's one of life's greatest pleasures.
for 16 years, i have met up with five friends for an annual yomp in the english countryside – and we are enjoying that companionship more than everlige nu kan du prøve aktiviva med en introrabat på 50% på første pakke, hvis du tilmelder dig abonnementsordningen – efterfølgende sparer du 20%which girls' name means 'little bear'?
the weekend quiz.
from cube-shaped droppings to theological virtues, test your knowledge with the weekend quizhow the word is passed review: after tulsa, other forgotten atrocitiesin his reckoning with the history of slavery across america, clint smith delivers a corrective both necessary and poetic a recreated slave cabin at thomas jefferson's plantation in charlottesville, virginia.
photograph: andrew lichtenstein/corbis via getty imagesfit in my 40s: what next after the couch to 5k app?.
even when i've done the 5k, failed to maintain my prowess peak and slid inexorably back down to couch, i've never thought twice about going back to the appbedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
blind date: 'she said i could be justin trudeau's younger brother'luca, 24, medical librarian, meets charlie, 26, executive assistant luca and charlie: 'we both come from pretty multicultural backgrounds. '
photograph: sophia evans/the guardiantim dowling: i've escaped the city.
now what do i do?it occurs to me that there used to be more to conversation than just being irritating, but i can't quite remember how it all worked.
i think: stick to what you know – birds and flowers 'that is not a supermarket bird,' i say.
'that's definitely a swallow. '
photograph: alamyindian start-up mylab discovery solutions hopes that its inexpensive covid-19 home test kit -- the country's first -- will help the massive south asian nation better track the pandemic's spread among its 1.
3-billion people.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringenthe us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) said friday that emergency department visits for suspected suicide attempts by teenage girls rose significantly last year compared to 2019, highlighting the mental health impact of the pandemic.
i was a little apprehensive about introducing them to each other — mainly because mark and i are not officially partners — but the two hit it off relatively quickly when we met for beers.
like a lot of people these days, bill maher is getting really annoyed with conservative democratic senator joe manchin.
and in a joke we suspect a lot of people will agree with maher said that manchin is pretty much just a republican.
"the most powerful republican in the senate" is how maher put it.
we hardly need to remind people of who manchin is, but just to put the joke in context, he's famous for his obstinate refusal to consider even tepid reform of the filibuster.
this is of course causinden genkender din børstestil og guider dig til bedre tandbørstning.
mød oral-b genius som har indbygget bluetooth.
given that fans already know where "roadrunner: a film about anthony bourdain" will go, documentarian morgan neville ("won't you be my neighbor?")
makes the risky — but poignant and thoughtful — choice to begin at the end.
the celebrity chef, author and television host died by suicide three years ago, so it's inevitable that a melancholy air suffuses what is nevertheless a warm celebration of an unusually full life.
the effortlessly charismatic bourdain never met a camera he couldn't seduce, andthe sanderson sisters are coming back!the movie "asia," written and directed by ruthy pribar, tells the story of a single mother named asia (alena yiv) and her teenage daughter vika (shira haas).
they both must navigate their already distant relationship as vika faces a terminal illness.
the 35-year old asia, who is raising the 17-year old vika on her own after emigrating to israel from russia, works as a nurse at a jerusalem hospital and through the course of the film must face the reality of vika's rapidly deteriorating condition.
du kan få flere penge i hverdagen, hvis du samler dine lån og kreditter i et samlelån.
indsend en uforpligtende ansøgning i dag.
it's no secret that television and film production faced wildly unprecedented challenges over the past year due to the covid-19 pandemic, with shows and movies delayed or halted in the middle of shooting, some never to resume again.
but what is interesting to see when the creative teams behind these projects get together is how this communal, challenging experience was tackled by them in very different ways — and yet they all can empathize with each other's plights.
"we were kind of fractured inthe title of this documentary about the making of the mid-90s exploitation picture "kids" is a rebuke to the way that movie was perceived when it came out, as a truthful portrait of a lost generation devoted to sex and drugs.
the survivors of that experience who are interviewed in "the kids" make it clear that what got on the screen was actually the fantasy of the aggressive and manipulative larry clark, who was deep into middle age when he began hanging out with very young skaters around washinmelissa barrera and leslie grace scored the job of a lifetime when, after an audition process that lasted a year and a half, lin-manuel miranda personally facetimed each of them to say they'd been cast in the film version of "in the heights. "
what came next was some of the most difficult choreography barrera and grace would have to execute in their careers.
as the film's female leads, they'd have to command the spotlight in some of the movie's most jaw-dropping dance scenes and set pieces.
for bfolk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersclubhouse isn't just for users to talk about ntfs or "shoot their shot" at potential mates.
the social audio app has become a space where entertainment fandoms thrive.
one of the fastest-growing groups on clubhouse is club bravo, which, as the name suggests, is focused on the cable network that airs "the real housewives," "below deck" and "top chef" franchises, among others.
club bravo celebrates its 3-month anniversary today.
it boasts 9,000+ followers and such impressive programming that clubhnbc's "ultimate slip 'n slide" just became the ultimate s— show.
the upcoming tv competition series, adapted from the classic backyard waterslide by wham-o, has shut down indefinitely after up to 40 crew members fell violently ill during production on a remote ranch in simi valley, california, thewrap has learned.
according to a person with knowledge of the production, the outbreak of "awful explosive diarrhea" left people "collapsing" on set and "being forced to run into port-o-potties. "
at leaour first lady had a conversation with the queen while at a reception for the g7 leaders.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore slots at vaccination centres offering the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine are being taken up more quickly than those for moderna, after vaccination bookings were made available for those aged 12 to 39 on friday (june 11).
as people can opt for either of the two available vaccines here, some have preferred the pfizer-biontech vaccine because its side effects are said to be less severe, among other reasons.
it is also the only one here approved for those under the age of 18. at the media conference by the multi-ministry task force tackling covid-19 on thursday (june 10), health minister ong ye kung said those who choose to go to vaccination centres that offer the moderna vaccine are much likelier to get an earlier slot, since students under 18 can take only the pfizer-biontech jab.
the vaccination drive for 400,000 students aged 12 and above began on june 3. checks by the straits times on friday afternoon showed that the earliest slot available for the moderna vaccine is june 12, compared with june 21 for the pfizer-biontech vaccine.
all vaccination centres tagged "more slots available" on a covid-19 vaccination appointment booking page seen by st offer the moderna vaccine.
ms germaine koh, 22, a student at nanyang technological university, chose the pfizer jab after observing the side effects of those around her who had been vaccinated.
she said: "my parents took moderna and they had slight fevers after taking the jab, but some others who took pfizer said that they had little to no side effects.
"some, such as university student isabel dyason, 22, chose vaccination centres that offer the pfizer-biontech vaccine even though they were farther away from home.
ms dyason, who lives in tampines, booked her first jab on june 25 at bedok community centre.
the shorter waiting period between doses for the pfizer-biontech vaccine 21 days against moderna's 28 days also appeals to some, while others said they chose it because more vaccination centres are offering it.
there were also those who thought the two vaccines are equally safe and effective, and chose their vaccination centres based on convenience.
ms goy shi yi, 32, a communications manager, said: "i wanted to get it done early and as soon as possible, because the situation may worsen very quickly as we've seen from all the recent clusters.
"she booked a slot for saturday at radin mas community club, which is just a few bus stops from her home.
"i did read up on the differences between moderna and pfizer, but from what i see, they have similar efficacy levels and side effects.
side effects like fever aren't of much concern to me.
if we're talking about rashes or some blood clots, then perhaps i'd be more worried," she added.
a study, conducted by the united states centres for disease control and prevention and published in the journal of the american medical association in april, found that those who received the moderna vaccine more frequently reported side effects such as redness over the injection site, muscle aches and fevers than those who received the pfizer-biontech vaccine.
after the second dose, 74.
8 per cent of moderna recipients reported reactions such as fever, headache and fatigue, compared with 64.
2 per cent of those who received the pfizer-biontech vaccine.
associate professor hsu li yang of the national university of singapore saw swee hock school of public health said the reasons for the difference are still unknown.
however, in terms of severe or life-threatening side effects, the two vaccines are similar and the risks are very low.
"in fact, the risk of anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) to the moderna vaccine is about half or less than half of the pfizer vaccine," he added.
dr ling li min, an infectious diseases expert from rophi clinic, said: "experts conclude that both vaccines are similar and equally good when it comes to efficacy, and that side effects depend more on the person than the shot itself.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
kuala lumpur malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new covid-19 infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said on friday (june 11) that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said in a statement.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel, social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources being overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded so far.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases on friday, the highest this week, bringing the all-time total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deem that the restrictions were successful in reducing the number of infections.
the health ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing, similar to may's mco, where most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols are allowed while social activities remain banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 jabbed on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up the pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin on friday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore the two-passenger limit for taxi and private hire cars will be lifted from monday (june 14), in line with singapore's updated restrictions on permissible group sizes, said the land transport authority (lta) on friday.
commercial carpooling services can also resume, added lta in its statement.
all drivers and passengers must still wear masks at all times, said lta.
"taxi and phc (private-hire car) drivers should decline to ferry passengers who do not wear masks.
"paid carpooling services that are matched through licensed ride-hail platforms, such as grabhitch and rydepool, may resume from monday.
however, paid carpooling trips which are arranged through informal platforms such as telegram groups remain illegal.
carpooling trips which do not involve payment, such as those between families, friends or colleagues, are permitted, subject to the prevailing permissible group size of five people, said lta.
the announcement comes a day after the multi-ministry task force on covid-19 said that restrictions on social gatherings will be relaxed in a two-step process from monday.
among other things, people will once again be allowed to gather in groups of up to five, although dining at eateries will be allowed only from june 21. the changes are a result of the falling number of new covid-19 cases reported daily since tightened measures were put in place on may 16. commercial carpooling services had stopped during the period of heightened alert from may 16 to june 13.  taxis and private-hire cars were also not allowed to take more than two passengers during this period unless they are members of the same household.
lta said on friday that taxi drivers, private hire car drivers and passengers are strongly encouraged to bring their tracetogether token or keep their tracetogether app on in their smartphone to facilitate contact tracing efforts.
"early detection of close contacts with confirmed covid-19 cases will help to protect drivers, passengers and their loved ones, and prevent further spread in the community," lta added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
kuala lumpur: united malays national organisation (umno) has pleaded with the king to not extend malaysia's state of emergency beyond aug 1, its president ahmad zahid hamidi said after an audience with the ruler on friday (jun 11).
the party also wanted the parliament to reconvene again to ensure that the country's "democratic system can be defended", ahmad zahid told journalists outside the palace.
umno's stance echoed that of leader of the opposition anwar ibrahim, who called for the state of emergency to end as scheduled in his meeting with king al-sultan abdullah ri'ayatuddin al-mustafa billah shah.
al-sultan abdullah has been summoning political party leaders to the palace for meetings this week.
he first met with prime minister muhyiddin yassin for a pre-cabinet meeting, and then granted audiences to mr anwar, parti amanah negara president mohamad sabu and democratic action party secretary-general lim guan eng on wednesday.
on thursday, the king had audiences with leaders of parti islam se-malaysia, malaysian chinese associatio, parti warisan sabah, as well as former prime minister mahathir mohamad, who is heading the yet-to-be-registered parti pejuang tanah air.
those who received a friday slot included mic president s.  a.  vigneswaran and parti bersatu sabah president maximus johnity ongkili, while leaders from sarawak were scheduled to have a virtual audience with the king on monday.
al-sultan abdullah had earlier declared a nationwide state of emergency back in january to curb the spread of covid-19.
parliament, state legislative assemblies and elections are suspended, while economic activities are allowed to continue.
malaysia's covid-19 numbers have continued to rise since january, and as of friday, total caseload stood at 646,411 cases, with 79,848 active cases and 3,684 deaths.
with the parliamentary suspension, the legitimacy of mr muhyiddin's perikatan nasional government formed following a power tussle in february and march last year cannot be challenged in the august house.
mr muhyiddin had said he would advise the king to dissolve the parliament once the pandemic is under control.
speaking to journalists on friday, ahmad zahid said the damage of a prolonged state of emergency would be "too great for the country".
"and it was obvious that even without the emergency, the government could previously handle matters related to fighting the covid-19 pandemic," he said.
ahmad zahid, who is bagan datuk mp, added that parliament meetings would ensure that the government administration is held accountable through checks and balances.
"umno is of the opinion that the parliament is an important official platform to voice the people's grouses, such as moratorium, increasing price of goods, i-sinar and i-lestari 2.
0 and other assistance for everyone," he said, referring to the retirement fund withdrawal programmes.
on dr mahathir's proposal to set up a national operations council to take over the country's administration, ahmad zahid said this was not discussed in his meeting with the king.
the council, better known by its malay abbreviation mageran, was an emergency administrative body established to restore the rule of law in malaysia after the may 13 racial riots in 1969. the opposition alliance pakatan harapan has rejected the proposal on friday, and reiterated its stance that the state of emergency should end immediately and the parliament should reconvene.
meanwhile, the palace said the king is due to meet with the other malay rulers next wednesday for a special discussion on the efforts to fight covid-19 and their implementation during the state of emergency.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
the hong kong government on friday enacted new guidelines that allow authorities to censor films on the basis of safeguarding national security, escalating concerns over freedoms in the former british colony.
the government said the changes that give the film censor authority to ban films perceived as promoting or glorifying acts or activities that could endanger national security take effect from friday.
the film censorship authority should stay "vigilant to the portrayal, depiction or treatment of any act or activity which may amount to an offence endangering national security", the government said in a statement.
"any content of a film which is objectively and reasonably capable of being perceived as endorsing, supporting, promoting, such act or activity" will be censored, according to the guideline.
[[nid:522086]]beijing imposed a national security law on hong kong in june that punishes what authorities broadly define as secession, sedition and collusion with foreign forces with up to life in jail, following a year of sometimes violent pro-democracy demonstrations.
western governments and international human rights groups have expressed concern the security law will crush freedoms in hong kong.
a filmmaker surnamed tang said the amendment would legitimise a crackdown on protest-related films and create a chilling effect on the movie industry.
"movies on social issues will be banned.
it will silence the filmmakers," tang said.
six cases, four involving men aged between 18 to 30 years old, have been reported in singapore.
singapore: there may be a "very small risk" of heart inflammation after the second dose of an mrna covid-19 vaccine, said the government-appointed expert committee on covid-19 vaccination in singapore.
in a media release on friday (jun 11), the committee said it is closely monitoring international reports that the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccines may be associated with a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men.
myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions that affect the heart muscles and the outer lining of the heart respectively.
increased occurrences of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of mrna covid-19 vaccinations have been observed in israel and the united states, and in adolescents and young men younger than 25 years.
singapore uses the pfizer-biontech and moderna vaccines for its national vaccination programme.
both are mrna-based vaccines.
in a separate update, the health sciences authority (hsa) said israel, which uses the pfizer-biontech covid-19 vaccine, recently announced that there may be a probable link between the second dose and the onset of myocarditis in men aged between 16 and 30 years old in its population.
the link was found stronger among the younger age group of 16 to 19 years old.
while no other country has highlighted a similar causal link to date, the us centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) has reported that it has observed more cases of myocarditis and pericarditis in male patients aged between 16 and 24 years old.
"nonetheless, they have stressed that investigations are ongoing, and they have not made any conclusion about a causal link," said hsa.
most cases are "mild", six such reports received by hsamyocarditis and pericarditis occur more often in men compared to women.
symptoms include chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
most cases are mild and patients recover without the need for significant intervention, nor do they suffer from any long-term effects.
the expert committee added that very rarely, severe cases may result in damage to the heart muscles.
the two conditions are separate and distinct from heart attacks, which are caused when the blood flow to the heart is blocked.
in singapore, hsa said it has received six such reports as of jun 7.  two of the cases involved a man and a woman older than 40 years old.
the other four cases involved men aged between 18 and 30 years old.
"(the four cases) are at the upper end of the expected range for this age group, based on background incidence rates," said hsa.
most of the cases were reported to have occurred within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine.
all have recovered or have been discharged well from the hospital.
although the local numbers are small, the pattern of occurrence after the second covid-19 vaccine and in young men is consistent with what has been observed in the us and israel, which are the two major users of the mrna vaccines, said hsa.
those who developed myocarditis and pericarditis responded well to treatment and recovered, added hsa.
"overall, the benefits of the pfizer-biontech and moderna covid-19 vaccines continue to outweigh the known risks of covid-19 disease and its severe complications in a pandemic," it added.
the authority has also informed the ministry of health (moh) and the expert committee of its assessment.
"we will also continue to monitor this closely and take the relevant and necessary regulatory actions," said hsa.
the committee said it has reviewed the available international and local data.
"our assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mrna covid-19 vaccines, i. e. , reduction in covid-19 infections and severe complications even if infected, continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination.
"avoid strenuous activity one week after second dose of vaccineas further studies and investigations are ongoing, the currently available data suggests that there may be a "very small risk" of myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of an mrna vaccine, particularly in young men, said the expert committeeas a precaution, the committee recommended that those vaccinated, particularly adolescents and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
they should also seek medical attention promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.
"covid-19 continues to be a health threat globally and in singapore.
"the emergence of infectious variants can lead to widespread community covid-19 transmission as well as the risk of severe covid-19 disease and complications, including long term chronic complications," said the committee.
it that the benefits of mrna covid-19 vaccination continue to outweigh the known and potential risks.
hsa and moh will also continue to monitor the safety profile of the covid-19 vaccines closely and update members of the public of any significant safety concerns detected with the vaccines.
downloadour appor subscribe to our telegram channel for the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak:https://cna.
asia/telegramit looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore assistant secretary-general of the national trades union congress (ntuc) melvin yong has been elected unopposed as the new president of the consumers association of singapore (case).
he takes over the reins from mr lim biow chuan, who had helmed the organisation for the past nine years.
mr yong, who is also mp for radin mas and the executive secretary of the national transport workers' union, will head the consumer watchdog for the term 2021 to 2024, case said in a media release on friday (june 11).
the new central committee was also elected and appointed to office, following its 48th annual general meeting on friday, case added.
thanking mr lim for his contributions, mr yong, 49, said: "as case commemorates its 50th anniversary this year, it is timely that we take stock of our achievements and consider how we can continue to be relevant and respond to the needs of consumers.
"i will work closely with the new central committee, management and staff to look into how we can better protect and empower consumers in this new digital age.
"mr lim, 58, who is mp for mountbatten, has served as case president since 2012, and was a vice-president from 2006 to 2012. some of his notable contributions included advocating for the enactment of provisions under the law to protect consumer rights.
for example, after receiving complaints against timeshare companies for pressure sales tactics, he advocated for legislation to better protect consumers against errant timeshare companies.
mr yong, who was elected vice-president in november 2019, had overseen the conceptualisation and development of two key projects, price kaki and fuel kaki, which allow consumers to compare prices of groceries and fuel.
the price kaki application has seen more than 72,000 downloads since it was launched in september 2019, while the fuel kaki website has seen an average of more than 25,000 visitors every month since it was launched in january this year.
mr lim told the straits times that he is still involved in other committees because of his position as a former president.
they include the multilateral healthcare insurance committee and the data protection advisory committee.
he said that he will continue to help out while mr yong adjusts to the new role.
"it is time for a leadership change, and it is always good for the key leader to be refreshed after a number of years.
it is good to look at things with fresh eyes and a new perspective.
sometimes, you can't see your own weaknesses," mr lim added.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
a $15 million sum has been set aside to provide some 5,000 airport workers with a special monthly allowance for six months.
the fund will also be used to cater meals for them during their shifts and to defray the cost of their personal protective equipment, the civil aviation authority of singapore (caas) and changi airport group (cag) said yesterday.
it is meant to help the workers as they adjust to stricter safety protocols put in place at the airport, including segregating them into three zones.
the 14,000 workers have to eat in their own zones.
cag and caas said the fund follows discussions with staff, unions and companies in the airport community.
the enhanced measures were put in place after a covid-19 cluster broke out at terminal 3 last month.
a total of 108 people 43 of whom were airport workers had been infected.
the agencies said 42 airport workers have been discharged, with the remaining worker recovering in hospital without needing additional oxygen.
investigations traced the likely source of infection to staff working in the arrival halls and baggage claim areas, who likely caught the virus from incoming passengers.
these workers likely transmitted the virus to members of the public while eating at the basement 2 foodcourt in t3.
as a result, all areas where some 4,400 workers encounter arriving passengers are regarded as the highest-risk zone the departure and arrival gates, arrival immigration hall and baggage claim hall.
these workers have to take an additional antigen rapid test between their routine polymerase chain reaction tests, and don full personal protective equipment at all times, except during meal times and toilet breaks.
during their shifts, they are not allowed to leave their zone, and will not be cross-deployed to lower-risk zones.
at the t3 foodcourt, which remains closed for now, plexiglass panels have been installed along with tape markings to restrict each table to one diner each.
transport minister s. iswaran yesterday said airport workers remain "very resolute".
"they understand the challenge, the need for many of the adjustments that they have to make.
there is a certain optimism, that we can get through this.
"asked if there could be more financial support for the sector, mr iswaran said the government remains committed to help, but any aid will be based on an assessment of the situation going forward.
responding to queries, cag also said tenants in airport terminals will continue to have their rental fees waived until they are allowed to reopen.
jewel changi airport will open from monday, but the terminals will stay closed to the public for now to give the staff some time to get used to the new measures.
mr iswaran said the change in operations at the airport is a major one.
"when we talk about the changi experience, what it means is travellers from all over the world coming, and in fact, mingling as they experience changi," he added.
"now, we want to segment the passengers.
we are taking a much more calibrated approach.
"join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
singapore he was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a maid who was walking along a sheltered footpath.
but instead of helping her, sy yong da, 26, drove away and sent his car to a workshop to try to have it repaired to cover up what he had done.
the maid, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, was later found dead at the scene.
she leaves behind two sons, aged eight and 19, and her husband, in the philippines.
on friday (june 11), sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
another two charges for failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
[[nid:470814]]at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, sy drove his silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on farrer road a road with a speed limit of 70kmh towards the direction of queensway.
he was intoxicated at the time and was sleepy, closing his eyes as he veered across two lanes and crashed into the sheltered footpath.
he ran his car into ms ocampo, who was on her way back home from the market, causing her to be flung onto a pillar.
sy immediately steered back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
sy drove away from the scene, went home to his condo unit at spanish village and called a towing company that he found online.
his car was towed away at about 7.
30am.
he later went down to the workshop in kaki bukit, waiting outside from 9.
15am, and handed over the car keys when it finally opened at 10am.
sy then went home to sleep.
it took five investigation officers to track sy down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder at the scene.
when questioned, he told them where the car was and took them to the workshop.
the car was seized before repairs were done.
the owner of the workshop did not proceed with the repairs because sy had not provided a police report detailing the accident.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash and slept very little.
but he decided to take his female friend, identified as one "alicia", out for a meal at a mcdonald's outlet in ang mo kio and drove her home at about 5.
35am despite being sleepy and intoxicated.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and to have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. for killing ms ocampo, he could have been jailed for up to 10 years.
for obstructing the course of justice, he could have been jailed for up to seven years or fined, or both.
this article was first published in the straits times.
permission required for reproduction.
by david brunnstrom, tom daly and michael martinawashington/beijing (reuters) -u. s.  secretary of state antony blinken stressed the need for cooperation and transparency over the origins of covid-19 in a call with chinese counterpart yang jiechi on friday and raised other contentious topics, including china's treatment of uyghur muslims, hong kong and taiwan.
yang, china's top diplomat, expressed to blinken beijing's serious concern that some people in the united states were spreading the "absurd story" about the coronavirus escaping from a wuhan laboratory, chinese state media said.
yang, head of the central foreign affairs commission of china's ruling communist party, also told blinken that washington should handle taiwan-related issues "carefully and appropriately," state broadcaster cctv reported.
the call came ahead of a g7 summit in britain attended by u. s.  president joe biden that is expected to be dominated by washington-led efforts to counter china's growing influence.
the world's two largest economies are deeply at odds over issues ranging from trade and technology to human rights and the coronavirus.
washington should work with beijing to put ties "back on track," yang said.
yang, who had a fiery exchange with blinken in alaska in march during the biden administration's first high-level meeting with its chinese counterparts, said beijing firmly opposed what he called "abominable actions" over the pandemic, which he said were being used to slander china, cctv said.
the state department said the diplomats also discussed north korea policy and that blinken expressed u. s.  concerns over the deterioration of democratic norms in hong kong and what washington describes as the genocide of muslim uyghurs in china's xinjiang region.
blinken also called on china to stop its pressure campaign against taiwan and to release "wrongfully detained" u. s.  and canadian citizens, it said in a statement.
'respect facts and science'the state department said the discussion on north korea an issue on which the united states is keen for more chinese action to press its ally and neighbor to give up its nuclear weapons focused on the need for beijing and washington "to work together for the denuclearization of the korean peninsula.
"it said the two diplomats also continued discussions on shared global challenges, including iran and myanmar, and the climate crisis.
"addressing the covid-19 pandemic, the secretary stressed the importance of cooperation and transparency regarding the origin of the virus, including the need for who phase 2 expert-led studies in china," it said, referring to the world health organization.
bonnie glaser, an asia expert at the german marshall fund of the united states think tank, said that although the agenda included potential areas of cooperation, the conversation appeared dominated by contentious issues.
she said yang's call for washington to work with beijing to put ties "back on track" indicated china was still putting the onus on the united states for the problems in the relationship.
"that's a non-starter, but demonstrates that the chinese are sticking to their tried-and-true diplomatic approaches, even though they are not successful.
"a report on the origins of covid-19 by a u. s.  government national laboratory concluded the hypothesis of a viral leak from a wuhan lab was plausible and deserved further investigation, the wall street journal said on monday.
"we urge the united states to respect facts and science, refrain from politicizing the issue .
.
.
and focus on international cooperation in the fight against the pandemic," yang said.
his comments on taiwan followed a visit to the chinese-claimed island last weekend by three u. s.  senators on a u. s.  military aircraft.
they met taiwanese president tsai ing-wen and announced the donation to taiwan of 750,000 doses of covid-19 vaccine, drawing a sharp rebuke from china's defense ministry.
in addition to coinciding with biden's first overseas trip as president to attend the g7 summit, the call comes as washington has been pushing policies to address challenges from china.
in the past eight days, biden updated an executive order banning u. s.  investment in companies linked to china's military and rolled out steps aimed at china to shore up u. s.  supply chains.
his trade representative katherine tai held a call with taiwan, the pentagon wrapped up a china policy review, and the senate passed a sweeping package of china-focused legislation.
eric sayers, a visiting fellow at the conservative american enterprise institute, said all that amounted to good timing for the administration to have an exchange with beijing.
"the white house should feel more confident taking these calls and letting beijing run down their stale talking points," sayers said.
(reporting by beijing newsroom and doina chiacu, david brunnstrom and michael martina in washington; writing by tom daly; editing by alex richardson, mark heinrich, angus macswan, paul simao and daniel wallis)china's quick rollout of a law against foreign sanctions has left european and american companies shocked and facing "irreconcilable" compliance issues, two top business groups said friday, despite beijing saying the move would unlikely impact investment.
it is compulsory to have your car insured in singapore.
why not make the most of it by looking for the best car insurance plan in town when your policy is up for renewal?
while it can be tempting to simply renew your existing car [.
.
. ]
the post 5 best car insurance plans in singapore (2021) appeared first on singsaver blog we compare, you save.
få flere penge i hverdagen ved at samle din gæld.
indsend en ansøgning her og få et tilbud.
indfri lånet når du ønsker det.
beijing has repeated an offer to vaccinate people from taiwan against covid-19, as the coronavirus continues to spread on the island.
the taiwan affairs office, beijing's main body for cross-strait affairs, on friday said that taiwanese who fly to mainland china can voluntarily receive covid-19 shots as long as they meet vaccination requirements and follow outbreak control measures.
"[we] urge the authorities to earnestly listen to the voices of the people on the island and remove the man-made oa hong kong court has barred media tycoon jimmy lai chee-ying and his companies from challenging the legality of the search warrants executed in a series of raids at his offices last year and refused their applications for an injunction against the police chief.
the nine plaintiffs first filed a series of private legal actions against the commissioner of police last year to recover some materials seized by officers during investigations into allegations of fraud and national security law violatiion orchard will be closed to the public from saturday (12 june) for four days and reopen on 16 june after three cases working at the mall were found to have covid-19 infection.
book en prøvetur og oplev ceed plug-in hybrid med plads til hele familien.
kør lydløst rundt på strøm i dagligdagen og mærk begejstringendemocrats erupted in outrage friday over news that donald trump's justice department secretly surveilled lawmakers probing possible collusion with russia, reaping the phone records of top political foes in what they called an unprecedented abuse of power.
china's rocket force has conducted firing exercises involving "carrier killer" df-26 ballistic missiles.
a missile brigade under the people's liberation army rocket force recently held launch practice in an unspecified training field at night to improve its combat ability, china national radio reported on tuesday.
in the exercise, the brigade practised the fast transfer of missiles to another location to launch a second wave of missiles, a drill to train the brigade's fast-response capabilities,turns out the comic books were wrong.
bedste sikkerhed i klassen.
a+ forbrug 19,2 km/l, 117-118 g/km co2.
prisen gælder indregistrering senest 30/06/2021.
agnes chow hails from a generation of hong kong democracy activists who cut their teeth in politics as teenagers and are now being steadily silenced by china.
a top official from the chinese county that hosted a fatal ultramarathon last month has been found dead, authorities said friday, as 27 people face punishment over the incident.
president vladimir putin on friday denied a us media report that russia is set to deliver an advanced satellite system to iran that will vastly improve its spying capabilities.
en elektrisk tandbørste med kunstig intelligens?
oral-b har gjort din eltandbørste endnu smartere og din tandbørstning sjovere.
singapore will begin slowly easing a month-long partial lockdown from next week after the curbs succeeded in stemming a coronavirus outbreak, authorities said thursday.
a secret society member who brutally assaulted a police officer and caused him to suffer a traumatic brain injury with help from his twin brother was jailed for two years, nine months and four weeks on friday (11 june).
china on thursday passed a new law to counter foreign sanctions, as it looks to build its defences against rising us and eu pressure over trade and human rights.
sådan investeres i aktier på 5 minutter via din telefon.
south korea's youngest mp apologised thursday after she provoked fury among bts fans by using pictures of tattooed singer jungkook to promote her campaign to liberalise the country's restrictive laws on inking.
lawyers for huawei technologies co.  executive meng wanzhou are seeking a publication ban on new evidence obtained from hsbc bank that they think will boost her canadian court battle against extradition to the united states.
they believe the material supports her claim that she is the victim of an abuse of process and she should be released, although the exact nature of the evidence has not been described.
her lawyer, richard peck, previously said the material, obtained as a result of a recent hosecond minister for education maliki osman has taken to facebook to express his shock and disappointment at alleged islamophobic remarks made by a ngee ann polytechnic (np) lecturer.
folk født 1930-1980 søges til betalte spørgeundersthe ministry of health (moh) on thursday (10 june) confirmed 13 new covid-19 cases in singapore, bringing the country's total case count to 62,236. china's nuclear arsenal is a growing threat to us security, less in its absolute size than in the growing risk of a mishap as washington and beijing butt heads over taiwan and many other issues, experts told a us congressional commission on thursday.
"have the risks changed?
yes, it's a more competitive us-china relationship, and the chances of a conflict over taiwan – while i don't believe they're high right now, they certainly have increased," said phillip saunders, director of the centre forblaming "misogynistic perverts in sport and their boot lickers", dual olympic silver medallist maddie groves has pulled out of australia's swimming trials for the tokyo games.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore it was one day before the photo shoot and i was panicking.
i had stuffed about 10 outfits, two pairs of shoes, a straw tote bag and an umbrella into my carry-on luggage, but i was still missing something oh, a picnic mat.
how else would i recreate a photo i had spotted on instagram, in which a young woman lounged on the grassy lawn of marina barrage, with branded sandals and bag casually strewn to the side?please subscribe or log in  to continue reading the full article.
*terms and conditions apply.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore he was speeding with his eyes closed when he crashed his car into a maid who was walking along a sheltered footpath.
but instead of helping her, sy yong da, 26, drove away and sent his car to a workshop to try to have it repaired to cover up what he had done.
the maid, ms domielyn santos ocampo, 40, was later found dead at the scene.
she leaves behind two sons, aged eight and 19, and her husband, in the philippines.
on friday (june 11), sy was jailed for 61⁄2 years, and will be disqualified from holding all classes of driving licences for a period of 10 years upon his release from prison.
he pleaded guilty to one count each of dangerous driving, failing to render assistance and obstruction of justice.
another two charges for failing to stop after the accident and removing his vehicle from the scene were taken into consideration for sentencing.
at about 6am on dec 7, 2019, sy drove his silver lexus at about 78kmh to 81kmh on farrer road a road with a speed limit of 70kmh towards the direction of queensway.
he was intoxicated at the time and was sleepy, closing his eyes as he veered across two lanes and crashed into the sheltered footpath.
he ran his car into ms ocampo, who was on her way back home from the market, causing her to be flung onto a pillar.
sy immediately steered back onto the road and left her for dead, deputy public prosecutor samyata ravindran told the court.
sy drove away from the scene, went home to his condo unit at spanish village and called a towing company that he found online.
his car was towed away at about 7.
30am.
he later went down to the workshop in kaki bukit, waiting outside from 9.
15am, and handed over the car keys when it finally opened at 10am.
sy then went home to sleep.
ms domielyn santos ocampo, who was found dead at the scene, leaves behind two sons and her husband, in the philippines.
photo: facebook
it took five investigation officers to track sy down, after they found debris from the car, including a broken number plate holder at the scene.
when questioned, he told them where the car was and took them to the workshop.
the car was seized before repairs were done.
the owner of the workshop did not proceed with the repairs because sy had not provided a police report detailing the accident.
a splatter of ms ocampo's blood and shreds of her clothing were found on the car, which was severely damaged with a cracked front windscreen and a broken bonnet, bumper and headlamp.
the court heard that sy had been drinking beer mixed with cognac for several hours before the crash and slept very little.
but he decided to take his female friend, identified as one "alicia", out for a meal at a mcdonald's outlet in ang mo kio and drove her home at about 5.
35am despite being sleepy and intoxicated.
the prosecution had urged the court to jail sy for seven years and disqualify him from holding all classes of driving licences for at least 10 years after his release.
sy was granted bail of $20,000 to settle his personal affairs and to have a meal with his family once covid-19 restrictions allow dining in at eateries.
he is expected to surrender himself on june 22. for killing ms ocampo, he could have been jailed for up to 10 years.
for obstructing the course of justice, he could have been jailed for up to seven years or fined, or both.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
malaysia will extend its lockdown by another two weeks to june 28, as new coronavirus infections are still averaging 6,871 daily.
senior minister for security ismail sabri yaakob said yesterday that the national security council made the decision on the health ministry's recommendation.
"the decision was taken after taking into account daily cases are still over 5,000," he said.
he did not say which period of time the average daily figure of 6,871 was based on.
datuk seri ismail sabri added that regulations such as bans on inter-district travel and social activities and cuts to workplace staff capacity would continue from the existing lockdown that began on june 1 and was set to expire after next monday.
"i hope there is no more confusion on the enforcement of standard operating procedures (sop).
i don't want the public to be affected by misinterpretation of the sops by the authorities," he said.
the lockdown, which allows only 17 economic sectors to operate, was imposed after a looser movement control order (mco) last month failed to curb malaysia's worst coronavirus wave, with both public and private healthcare resources overrun by a record number of active cases.
instead, may has been the deadliest month so far, logging more than a third of the 3,768 fatalities recorded in total.
the health ministry reported 6,849 new cases yesterday, the highest this week, bringing the total to 646,411, with a record 912 currently warded in intensive care units.
malaysia's lockdown, dubbed a full mco (fmco), would have ended its first phase next monday had the health ministry's risk assessment based on infection rates and hospital capacities deemed that the curbs were successful in reducing infection numbers.
the ministry said on wednesday that the rate of transmission had dipped just below 1.
0 to 0.
96, indicating that the number of new patients daily was decreasing slowly.
once malaysia ends the fmco, a second phase lasting four weeks will follow, with more economic sectors that do not involve mass gatherings allowed to reopen.
should the situation continue to improve, malaysia will see a further easing to something similar to last month's mco, in which most economic activities subject to sops and health protocols were allowed, while social activities remained banned.
however, malaysia's long-term exit strategy from mco restrictions largely revolves around achieving herd immunity before the end of the year.
after a slow start, the national covid-19 immunisation programme has steadily increased the rate of doses administered daily, with 157,949 receiving jabs on thursday.
over 2.
8 million people, or nearly 12 per cent of the adult population, have had at least one dose.
"vaccination has picked up pace.
.
.
and it will increase to between 200,000 and 250,000 in july and then hit 300,000 to 400,000 daily," said prime minister muhyiddin yassin yesterday.
malaysia needs to dispense about 200,000 doses daily to inoculate a targeted 80 per cent by the end of the year.
the premier called on the public to register for their vaccines, with 13 million, or about 54 per cent of eligible residents, indicating their interest so far.
malaysia yesterday started to deploy four mobile vaccine trucks to inoculate some 7,200 residents of public housing projects in kuala lumpur, as the country races to speed up its vaccination drive.
the three-day programme, which will run until tomorrow, involves four areas in the kuala lumpur federal territory.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore last year, several countries in south-east asia were among the poster boys for their deft handling of the covid-19 pandemic.
now, they are battling a resurgence in infections.
case numbers are still low compared with other hot spots like india and brazil but governments in the region, nonetheless, have initiated lockdowns and ramped up testing.
they have also accelerated vaccination drives by rolling out public awareness campaigns, ironing out flaws in previous policies, scaling up inoculation efforts and dangling incentives all of which are part of the effort to protect their people and open up economies battered by the pandemic.
"south-east asia has done a wonderful job during the first wave of the pandemic but people later lowered their guard and this gave the virus free rein on the ground.
the governments have tried to ramp up their vaccination campaigns but with the exception of singapore they still have a long way to go," dr abhishek rimal, kuala lumpur-based regional emergency health coordinator at the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies (ifrc), told the straits times.
singapore is the region's leader in vaccinations, with more than 30 per cent of the population fully vaccinated.
it has allowed children from the age of 12 to be vaccinated and month-long restrictions put in place to combat a spike in cases look set to be eased from monday (june 14).
but many of singapore's neighbours are hampered by slow progress in their vaccination campaigns, with most having inoculated less than 10 per cent of their population.
several countries are now working to speed up their efforts.
indonesia, which has given out more than 30 million shots mostly to the elderly, health workers and those with disabilities is allowing old folk to turn up at any designated facility for a jab without prior registration, while offering shots to the young if they help bring in those aged 60 years and above to be inoculated.
indonesia has asked china for technical assistance to help it become a regional production hub for the covid-19 vaccine.
a man receiving a dose of vaccine during a mass inoculation exercise in banda aceh, indonesia, on june 9, 2021.  photo: epa-efe
malaysia, which is in the throes of another lockdown after registering record-high cases and deaths in recent weeks, has opened up mega vaccination centres to inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
vaccine trucks have been deployed to areas where people might find it difficult to get to an immunisation centre.
close to four per cent of malaysia's 32 million population a total of 1.
22 million are now fully vaccinated.
the government has said that 16 million vaccine doses will arrive in the next two months.
thailand has set a target to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
it has announced plans to open up the tourist resort of phuket next month for fully vaccinated tourists.
the thai government has also allowed private and local administrative organisations to procure covid-19 vaccines, but only through approved agencies such as the national vaccine institute and the thai red cross society.
health workers attending to a woman about to receive a dose of covid-19  vaccine at an inoculation centre set up at the central eastville shopping mall in bangkok, on june 7, 2021.  photo: bloomberg
cambodia has mobilised the army to inoculate its citizens and the one millionth and two millionth vaccinated person received 10 million riel (s$3,244) each.
laos has banned the purchase of covid-19 vaccines by private entities in order to stave off complaints about inequality in the country, while neighbouring vietnam once a model for its successful handling of the pandemic has appealed to the public to donate to a covid-19 vaccine fund as it struggles to contain a new wave of the disease.
an electrical box painted with a covid-19 theme in hanoi on june 7, 2021.  about 16 electrical boxes in ha ba trung district have been painted this way to promote hand washing and the wearing of face masks.
photo: epa-efe
the philippines has extended vaccinations to children aged between 12 and 15, while private firms are allowed to procure vaccines for their workers without having to donate part of their shipments to the government.
in order to help shore up confidence in the vaccine programme and tackle the issue of vaccine hesitancy, local celebrities were roped in to get their jabs publicly, while some cities and towns went a step further by offering everything from cattle to land to property in a bid to entice people to get their jabs.
registration booths set up inside a cinema complex for citizens preparing to be vaccinated in san juan city, metro manila, on june 1, 2021.  photo: reuters
despite their best efforts to bump up vaccinations, countries in the region still face various challenges, chief among them getting enough vaccines.
it is estimated that the region will need some 1.
4 billion doses to cover the entire population of more than 650 million, leading some analysts to caution that this would be a formidable challenge since the global demand for vaccines outstrips supply.
some countries are only receiving their first stocks now.
impoverished timor leste received its first batch of vaccine doses from covax, comprising 24,000 astrazeneca doses, only on april 5 this year.
it received 100,000 doses of sinovac vaccines from china on june 7. covax is the world health organisation-led initiative to secure vaccine supplies for developing countries.
"slow vaccine roll-out will have critical consequences for south-east asia," ms hanh nguyen and mr james borton wrote in the international intelligence publication, geopolitical monitor, on may 25.
"for a region that relies heavily on export and tourism, the low vaccine coverage plus closed border policy mean countries will not open their economies soon, thus missing out on economic opportunities as the west gradually reopens.
"another issue has been competition between the west and china as beijing expands its vaccine diplomacy in the region.
apart from sales, china has donated vaccines to cambodia, laos, myanmar and the philippines.
"as of right now, china stands out in its vaccine diplomacy efforts a move that the global superpower will likely use to solidify its position within the south-east asia," mr shazwan mustafa kamal, a senior associate with political risk and public consultancy vriens & partners, told st. the united states has recently announced plans to donate seven million doses to south asia and south-east asia, while the g-7 is expected to donate one billion vaccine doses to the world's poorest countries.
but mr shazwan said western powers appeared to be playing catch-up to china.
"south-east asian nations will be in an unenviable position in balancing china's overtures as well as their relationships with the us," he added.
dr kevin s. y.  tan, a visiting senior fellow at iseas-yusof ishak institute who has written about vaccination efforts in the region, said it is too early to ascertain whether china's vaccine diplomacy will lead to any significant geopolitical shifts.
"if the pandemic drags on and if other vaccine sources are somehow limited, there will naturally be a greater dependency on chinese vaccines.
such vaccine dependency, in the long run, may bolster china's standing among south-east asian nations," he told st. logistics is another major issue in a region marked by vastly different terrain, from modern cities to rural mountainous areas and far-flung islands.
this comes on top of poor infrastructure and limited resources to distribute and store vaccines, a significant roadblock for rapid deployment, especially for last-mile delivery.
experts fear that if this is not overcome, the overall recovery for any nation will be difficult and time-consuming, especially if coronavirus variants lead to new waves of infection.
as such, it is important that governments ensure the necessary infrastructure is in place, said iseas' dr tan, especially for vaccines with ultra-cold storage requirements.
"but if such infrastructure is unrealistic at the moment, then a decision to use more 'logistically friendly' vaccines may be a pragmatic and feasible approach," said dr tan, who is also an adjunct faculty member at the school of global studies in thailand's thammasat university.
another issue that could hamper the region's success in tamping down the virus is the ongoing civil unrest in myanmar.
political instability in the country has exacerbated an already overstretched healthcare system and observers fear it is in danger of turning into the next covid-19 epicentre.
locals told st the military government has set up vaccination centres but not many people are turning up for the jabs due to high distrust of the military junta's capability to administer, store and transport the vaccines.
many have also refused to get vaccinated as a mark of protest against the junta.
"i am not getting vaccinated as i do not trust the quality and efficacy of the vaccines after the coup.
my friends and family pretty much hold the same view as well," investment analyst ye salween, 31, told st. the jury is still out on whether the region can be fully vaccinated by the end of next year, a target set for the world by british prime minister boris johnson.
ifrc's dr abhishek described it as an "ambitious" target while iseas' dr tan said to do so would require a "colossal effort" which can be achieved, but only with support from foreign countries.
"this is because not a single country in the region has come up with its own home-made vaccine against covid-19 so far.
as a region, we are still dependent on supplies and support from sources beyond south-east asia and this is a glaring vulnerability that may need to be addressed," said dr tan.
professor paul tambyah, president of the asia-pacific society of clinical microbiology and infection, said locally manufactured vaccines were "the obvious answer", noting that middle-income countries such as indonesia, thailand and malaysia had well established vaccine-manufacturing capacity.
"the key has to be the trips waiver," he told st, referring to the world trade organisation's (wto) agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights that governs the transfer of property like movie rights or vaccine-manufacturing specifics.
"with the trips waiver on patents, south-east asian countries could rapidly scale up vaccine production.
"he added that, without the constraints of the patents, mass vaccination could be rolled out very quickly the way measles and polio vaccines, which were locally made, led to the virtual elimination of these diseases.
as of now though, reports say malaysia and the philippines will experience delays in the delivery of the astrazeneca vaccine manufactured in thailand.
that is going to exacerbate the situation in the philippines, in particular, because some vaccination sites in the capital, manila, have been closed due to the shortage of vaccines.
mr jose ma luis montesclaros, an associate research fellow at the s.  rajaratnam school of international studies, has suggested that asean should support the private sector to develop vaccine production capacity.
"i feel that expanding the supplies of vaccines is something that benefits not only the vaccine- producing/recipient countries, but the world over, given the interconnected nature of global trade and investments," he told st. "the sooner countries are able to solve the health problem, the sooner they can begin working on economic recovery," he added.
• allowing the elderly to go to any designated vaccination facility without prior registration.
• younger indonesians are eligible for shots if they help bring in those aged 60 years and older to get vaccinated.
• aiming to become a regional production hub for covid-19 vaccine.
• set up mega vaccination centres that can inoculate up to 8,000 people a day.
• deploying vaccine trucks to rural communities.
• government has pledged 16 million doses of vaccines in the next two months.
• targeting to administer 500,000 shots per day from this month, five times more than the previous daily average.
• shopping malls and supermarkets are among the 25 vaccination sites in bangkok.
• aiming to open up phuket for vaccinated tourists next month.
• approved vaccinations for children between the ages of 12 and 15.
• several towns and cities are offering cows, bags of rice, land and properties to entice people to get jabs.
• deploying vaccine buses to reach poorer, less accessible districts.
• residents sent text messages urging them to contribute to a covid-19 vaccine fund.
• looking to buy covid-19 vaccine production technology and build a plant to supply vaccines for the covax programme.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
beijing: a new chinese law against foreign sanctions is designed to boost beijing's power against international pressure, but could spark compliance dilemmas for foreign businesses operating in the world's second-largest economy.
it comes just a week after us president joe biden expanded a blacklist of chinese companies in which americans are not allowed to invest.
here is what we know about the law so far:what is it?the anti-foreign sanctions law was rushed into force on thursday (jun 10).
it aims to protect chinese individuals or organisations in the event that a country "uses various pretexts or its laws" to take "discriminatory" action against them.
no country is specifically named.
but beijing has accused western nations of "suppressing" china's development, especially the united states.
it has lashed out at "illegal and unreasonable" sanctions over human rights and flagged an urgent need to fight back.
what could it do?countermeasures listed in the law include denying visas, deportation, or seizing assets of those who formulate or comply with sanctions against chinese businesses or officials.
it rules that authorities are not only able to target individuals and groups but can also take aim at their family members.
the law is broad and "significantly increases the punitive power of china's anti-sanctions measures", said university of hong kong associate professor angela zhang.
"the broad scope of this framework means that lots of folks, like scholars, pundits, think tanks, could be sanctioned for supporting sanctions on china," warned julian ku, an expert on international law at hofstra university.
how could it impact business?senior executives of entities on a countermeasure list could also come under pressure, with potential implications for a large number of people and businesses.
"affected businesses could lose entire access to the chinese market, and chinese citizens and institutions will need to cut ties with affected ngos and think tanks," zhang told afp.
the law could also create severe compliance issues for multinational companies.
part of the legislation prohibits those in china from going along with designated foreign sanctions.
it acts in a similar way to a european blocking statute "which nullified the effect of us iran sanctions within the eu", said ku.
this puts foreign businesses in a bind if they cannot legally comply with both us sanctions and chinese prohibitions.
why now?the law builds on earlier measures which prevent companies and individuals from complying with foreign sanctions targeting china.
in an explainer on the national people's congress website, an official said the law was passed in a short period of time because there was "an urgent need to counter the hegemonism and power politics of certain western countries".
the law will help "counteract the containment and suppression" china faces, the official added.
beijing has long complained about us sanctions and trade restrictions affecting chinese companies.
but in recent months biden has stepped up us criticism over intellectual property theft and alleged human rights abuses in hong kong and the northwestern xinjiang region.
how much of a threat is it?ku warned the law had "some reasonable parts, and some troubling parts".
the section allowing for retaliatory sanctions "is unprecedented compared to other countries' sanctions regimes", he said.
foreign companies are regularly caught in the crosshairs of tension between china and western nations, including recent nationalist attacks on fashion brand h&m for voicing concern about forced labour claims in xinjiang.
zhang said she believes chinese authorities will not immediately wield the new powers, given that anxiety among foreign businesses could lead to more decoupling.
"if, however, foreign governments continue to press on with aggressive sanctions, then i believe china will start deploying those anti-sanctions laws to demonstrate their coercive power," she said.
it looks like the email address you entered is not valid.
chinese ride-hailing company didi revealed a $1.
6 billion net loss for 2020 as it moves ahead with plans for a u. s.  initial public offering.
the company in its first public filing for the ipo listed the offering as $100 million, a placeholder that will change when the company discloses terms for the share sale.
didi filed thursday under the business name xiaoju kuaizhi inc. , with goldman sachs group inc. , morgan stanley and jpmorgan chase & co.  leading the offering.
listen: fion li, bloomberg's team leader for asia deals, discusses didi's ipo plan with juliette saly and doug krizner on bloomberg daybreak asia.
didi, one of the largest investments in softbank group corp. 's portfolio, accelerated its listing plans after its business rebounded as the coronavirus pandemic ebbed in china.
the company has been considering seeking a valuation of as much as $70 billion to $100 billion in the ipo, bloomberg news reported in april.
in recent months, didi has been trading at a valuation of about $95 billion on the secondary market, said people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because the information was private.
the company last raised funding at a $62 billion value last year, according to pitchbook.
a representative for didi declined to comment on the company's valuation.
softbank's vision fund, uber technologies inc.  and tencent holdings ltd.  are currently among didi's biggest shareholders with a combined stake of about 41%, its filing shows.
didi co-founder will wei cheng holds 7% of the shares.
softbank's 21.
5% stake could be worth $15 billion or more at the targeted valuation range, although that stake could be diluted in the offering.
the japanese company invested more than $10 billion in didi, bloomberg news has reported.
while didi has expanded into 15 countries, most of its revenue still comes from its china mobility business.
didi reported revenue of $21.
6 billion in 2020.  in the first quarter of this year, as china recovered from the pandemic, revenue more than doubled from the year before to hit $6.
4 billion.
the company also turned a profit for the quarter, reporting net income of $837 million.
the murder of two passengers by didi drivers in the summer of 2018 sparked public outrage and the mass deleting of the company's app.
didi's founders cheng and jean qing liu called the deaths the company's darkest moment.
"in the summer of 2018, two tragic safety incidents occurred on our 'hitch' platform," they wrote in a letter to investors included in the filing.
"these shook us to our core.
we felt an immense sense of sadness and responsibility and began a period of deep self-reflection.
"the company cited safety concerns among the risks to its business, saying failure to ensure safety could cause it to lose customers.
the company said in its filing that, after the deaths, it suspended the hitch carpooling service for more than a year to develop procedures to protect riders and drivers.
other potential risks for didi line up with those of their ride-hailing competitors around the world.
rivals could undercut didi's customer prices or poach drivers with better earning potential, the company said in the filing, and its business model would suffer if their army of drivers were re-classified as employees.
the company also cited the possibility of antitrust fines or regulations, as well as the chance its share price could drop because of negative sentiment in the u. s.  about chinese companies.
an ipo would cap a remarkable turnaround for a company that first ran afoul of regulators and then faced the effects of the pandemic.
didi seeks to tap the same investor enthusiasm that propelled this year's tech debuts by chinese video service kuaishou technology and south korean e-commerce pioneer coupang inc. didi's ipo would also mark a monumental year for chinese tech ipos.
kuaishou raised more than $6 billion via a hong kong debut in january, while bytedance ltd.  itself is expected to put in motion a listing later this year.
didi was founded in 2012 by former alibaba group holding ltd.  staffer cheng.
it clashed with uber in china for years until the u. s.  firm retreated in 2016, selling its operation in the country to didi.
the company is looking for capital to invest in technology, grow its presence in some international markets and introduce new products, according to the filing.
it is planning to make its debut in western europe this year, bloomberg news reported in february, and it's invested heavily in so-called community buying, one of the hottest e-commerce growth areas in china.
didi, which remains the dominant player in china, is also looking to leverage that lead to expand into adjacent arenas from autonomous driving to electric vehicles.
the company said in thursday's filing that it plans to list its american depositary shares under the symbol didi, although it didn't specify on which exchange.
— with assistance by coco liu
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
singapore staff who work in higher-risk settings with unmasked customers will have to undergo regular covid-19 testing, with the government covering the cost of these tests for the next three months.
these include workers at dine-in food and beverage (f&b) establishments, saunas and gyms and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.
mandatory fast and easy testing (fet) will start from july for those working at dine-in f&b establishments, as dining in with a maximum group size of five will be allowed to resume from june 21. this expanded testing regime was announced on thursday (june 10) by the multi-ministry task force tackling covid-19, alongside the relaxation of measures in two stages.
fet uses tests such as antigen rapid tests, which can produce results in about 30 minutes and can be done on-site.
all workers will have to undergo testing, regardless of their vaccination status.
the ministry of health said fet capacity will be ramped up aggressively in the coming months, with mandatory testing progressively rolled out to larger establishments first and extended to smaller businesses later on.
finance minister lawrence wong, who co-chairs the multi-ministry task force on covid-19, said that the government is working out the details of this new testing regime, such as the frequency of testing and whether it can be self-administered, and more information will be announced later on.
the regime is part of measures which singapore is taking to minimise virus transmission and the risk of large clusters breaking out, as it reopens in a "cautious and controlled" manner, he said.
the government will cover the cost of testing over the next three months, mr wong noted, adding: "we are doing that during this period because it is important to get everyone tested regularly and put this in place.
"beyond that, employers will have to start thinking about incorporating these processes as part of their bcps (business continuity planning).
"measures which f&b operators have to take in line with safe distancing rules include ensuring that their restaurants have "good ventilation" and groups of diners are seated at least 1m apart.
rostered routine testing is already being done in a number of higher-risk settings in singapore, including migrant worker dormitories, construction worksites, shipyards, air and sea ports, hospitals and nursing homes.
individuals, whether vaccinated or not, are tested once every seven days or once every 14 days, depending on their risk level.
read next: singapore to ease covid-19 curbs and reopen in 2 phases from june 14: everything you need to knowjoin st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
japan quietly shifts its stance on taiwan amid growing concerns over beijing's economic and military might.
tokyo, japan – the japanese government has injected itself into the increasingly tense confrontation in the taiwan straits.
last friday, japan sent taiwan 1.
24 million doses of astrazeneca's covid-19 jab, after taiwan's president tsai ing-wen accused china of blocking the territory's access to vaccines amid its worst coronavirus outbreak since the pandemic began.
beijing regards taiwan – a self-governing island that lies 161km (100 miles) off the chinese coast – as part of its territory and has not ruled out the use of force to achieve its goal.
it has taken an increasingly assertive stance since tsai was first elected in 2016, claiming that she wants independence for the island's 23.
6 million people, and tensions have risen as traditional allies, including the united states, rallied to support taiwan.
japan has for decades taken a quieter approach.
but with china's growing economic and military might and its continuing challenge to japanese sovereignty over the senkaku islands, known to the chinese as the diaoyutai islands, the government in tokyo is changing tack.
"the japanese conservatives have really seized upon the taiwan issue as a way of drawing lines with the chinese," said daniel sneider, lecturer in east asian studies at stanford university.
china's rise has worried many in japan.
in recent years, beijing has become increasingly assertive in the asia pacific region, showcasing its military might in the east china sea and the south china sea to back its maritime and territorial claims in the disputed seas.
taiwan, which also lays claim to the south china sea, has also felt the heat from beijing.
over the past year, the chinese military has sent fighter jets into the island's airspace on a near-daily basis, with 25 chinese military aircraft flying through on april 12. in a bid to counter china's growing clout, japan is forging security ties with countries like australia and india, and reinforcing its alliance with the united states, which also sees beijing as a strategic competitor.
when us president joe biden and japanese prime minister yoshihide suga met in washington, dc, in april, china was the top focus of their talks.
and for the first time in more than half a century, the leaders' joint statement included a reference to "the importance of peace and stability across the taiwan strait".
additionally, when japan's defence ministry released a draft of its annual "white paper" last month, it mentioned the taiwan issue for the first time ever.
"the stability of the situation surrounding taiwan is important for the security of japan and the stability of the international community," the draft document said.
beijing condemned the japan-us stance on taiwan as interference in its internal affairs, accusing the two countries of "ganging up to form cliques and fanning bloc confrontation".
chinese officials have also previously described concerns over its military and economic clout as part of a "cold war mentality" that seeks to contain it.
it is in this broad context that japan, which once ruled taiwan as a colony, jumped to the island's aid as it scrambled to secure supplies of the coronavirus vaccine.
as sneider put it, "it's about demonstrating that japan has an interest in the continued de facto independence and security of taiwan.
it's that simple.
"beijing has denounced japan's moves.
when the first reports of tokyo considering sending vaccines to taipei emerged in late may, chinese foreign ministry spokesperson wang wenbin responded sharply.
"we are firmly against those who exploit the pandemic to put on political shows or even meddle in china's internal affairs," he said.
"i've noticed that japan can barely ensure adequate supply of vaccines at home.
"he added, "i would like to stress that vaccine assistance should be restored to its origin purpose, which is to save lives, and should not be reduced to a tool for selfish political gains.
"wang's contention that politics are involved was not entirely misplaced.
several reports in both the japanese and taiwanese media highlighted the role that former japanese prime minister shinzo abe, a longtime "china hawk," had played in expediting the delivery of the vaccines to taiwan.
reporting on june 3, the sankei shinbun newspaper said abe, who stepped down last september, had been closely involved in the discussions and noted taiwan's generous donations to japan at the time of the devastating earthquake and tsunami of 2011. in taiwan, the japanese donation was a triumph for tsai's government.
tsai, who received global praise for her handling of the pandemic early on, is facing public anger after a sudden surge in covid-19 infections that began last month.
to date, the island has recorded 11,968 infections and 333 deaths, of which the vast majority were reported in the past month.
with less than 3 percent of the taiwanese public vaccinated, anger is growing over the shortage of covid-19 jabs.
taiwan says the crisis has been compounded by china.
on may 26, tsai accused china of using its influence to block a large delivery of the pfizer-biontech vaccine.
beijing has denied the claim, however, and says taiwan had in fact refused to accept its offer of vaccines.
wang, the spokesman for the chinese foreign ministry, also accused tsai's democratic progressive party (dpp) of prioritising "political manipulation over anti-epidemic cooperation".
lev nachman, a visiting scholar at the national taiwan university, said the dpp faced a dilemma.
"the reality is that taiwan needs vaccines," he said, "and the catch-22 is that the dpp government really can't politically afford to take vaccines from the prc.
"if the independence-leaning dpp were to turn to the mainland for help, he noted, it could undermine the party's own legitimacy as a self-governing force.
but "by taking vaccines from japan, that's much less politically loaded than taking vaccines from the prc, which is, of course, a major win for taiwan," said nachman.
moreover, the process of bringing in the vaccines from japan allowed various rival dpp politicians to make a rare show of unity, signalling that they had acted responsibly for the benefit of the people – although taiwanese authorities still have quite some distance to go to secure vaccines for the island's entire population.
even the supporters of the beijing-friendly opposition party, the kuomintang, are feeling "quiet appreciation" for japan, said nachman.
many taiwanese also took to social media to show their gratitude when news of the japanese donation came.
several people posted photos of themselves travelling in japan in the pre-pandemic era as a means to demonstrate their appreciation for and closeness with their northern island neighbours, according to brian chee-shing hioe, editor of new bloom, an online magazine covering youth culture and politics in taiwan and the asia-pacific.
hioe also weighed in on the wider strategic context, noting that japan's donation was followed a couple of days later by a us pledge of a further 750,000 doses.
"the us was coordinating this behind the scenes," hioe asserted, "to cement this relation between japan and taiwan, which is useful for regional security, for american purposes.
"after months without cases, initial response was a 'disaster', island's former health minister tells al jazeera.
move comes after us secretary of state antony blinken signalled a possible resumption of economic talks with taiwan.
us donation comes after taiwan accused china of trying to block the island from accessing vaccines internationally.
researchers say china is behind much of the disinformation, which authorities worry will put lives at risk.
follow al jazeera english:
read 3 articles daily and stand to win st rewards, including the st news tablet worth $398.
spin the wheel for st read and win now.
washington (reuters) a higher-than-expected number of young men have experienced heart inflammation after their second dose of the mrna covid-19 shots from pfizer/biontech and moderna, according to data from two vaccine safety monitoring systems, the us centres for disease control and prevention (cdc) said on thursday (june 10).
the cdc and other health regulators have been investigating heart inflammation cases after israel's health ministry reported that it had found a likely link to the condition in young men who received pfizer's covid-19 vaccine.
the agency said it is still assessing the risk from the condition and has not yet concluded that there was a causal relationship between the vaccines and cases of myocarditis or pericarditis.
while some patients required hospitalisation, most have fully recovered from their symptoms, the cdc said.
more than half of the cases reported to the us vaccine adverse event reporting system (vaers) after people had received their second dose of either the pfizer/biontech or moderna vaccines were in people between the ages of 12 and 24, the cdc said.
those age groups accounted for less than 9 per cent of doses administered.
"we clearly have an imbalance there," dr tom shimabukuro, deputy director of the cdc's immunisation safety office, said in a presentation to an advisory committee to the us food and drug administration meeting on thursday.
the overwhelming majority of the cases have occurred within a week of vaccination, shimabukuro said.
there were 283 observed cases of heart inflammation after the second vaccine dose in those aged 16 to 24 in the vaers data.
that compares with expectations of 10-to-102 cases for that age range based on us population background incidence rates, the cdc said.
shimabukuro said there was a predominance of males in younger age groups among the reported heart inflammation cases.
the median age of patients who experienced the inflammation after a second vaccine dose was 24, according to the vaers data.
just under 80 per cent of the cases were in men.
shimabukuro also said the vaccine safety datalink (vsd) another safety monitoring system – showed an increased incidence of heart inflammation in 16 to 39 year olds after their second shot when compared to the rate observed after the first dose.
pfizer said it supports the cdc's assessment of the heart inflammation cases, noting that "the number of reports is small given the number of doses administered.
"about 130 million people in the united states have received both doses of one of the mrna vaccines.
"it is important to understand that a careful assessment of the reports is ongoing and it has not been concluded that the mrna covid-19 vaccines cause myocarditis or pericarditis," the company said in a statement.
moderna said it also has not established a causal association with the condition and its vaccine.
it said it is actively working with public health and regulatory authorities to further assess the issue.
the cdc said it will hold a meeting of its advisory committee on immunisation practices next week to further evaluate the evidence and assess the risk of myocarditis following mrna vaccination for covid-19.
join st's telegram channel here and get the latest breaking news delivered to you.
sph digital news / copyright © 2021 singapore press holdings ltd.  co.  regn.
no.
198402868e.
all rights reservedwe have been experiencing some problems with subscriber log-ins and apologise for the inconvenience caused.
until we resolve the issues, subscribers need not log in to access st digital articles.
but a log-in is still required for our pdfs.
the police arrested a man who was filmed climbing on top of a car and riding his motorcycle in the buff on june 10. the 24-year-old will be charged in court on saturday (june 12) with appearing nude in a public place under section 27a(1)(a) of the miscellaneous offences (public order and nuisance) act.
the police told asiaone they were alerted to an incident where a man was reportedly walking around naked at block 212 lorong 8 toa payoh at around 5.
45am on june 10.  in a video that circulated online, he was filmed in an hdb carpark climbing onto the roof of a white car and standing there without wearing a mask.
[[nid:530718]]the driver stepped out of his car and saw the naked man jumping off the vehicle, landing on a grass patch and walking away as though nothing happened.
similar visual accounts of this man were shared on social media on the same day.
in one viral video, he was seen riding a motorcycle — sans helmet, mask or clothes —  on the pan island expressway before exiting at bedok north road.
the video has been viewed over 42,000 times.
netizens poked fun at the clip and some speculated why the man wasn't wearing clothes.
one commenter wrote: "weather too hot".
in another photo, the same motorcyclist was seen waiting at a traffic junction near the masjid darul aman mosque in eunos.
if found guilty of appearing nude in a public place, he will face a fine of up to $2,000, a jail term of up to three months, or both.
alexanderkt@asiaone.
com
